Title: Battle over curbing plastic output jeopardises UN treaty hopes
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 11:30:00 +0000
Content: Doubts rose on sealing a global treaty to curb plastic pollution on the last day of scheduled talks, as over 100 countries pushed to cap production while a handful of oil-producing countries wanted to focus only on plastic waste.
The fifth and final U.N. Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee meeting to yield a legally binding global treaty was set to wrap up in Busan, South Korea, on Sunday, but a final plenary session had not been held as of 4:00 p.m. (0700 GMT).
A treaty could be the most significant deal relating to environmental protection as well as climate-warming emissions since the 2015 Paris Agreement.
Countries remained far apart on Sunday on the basic scope of the treaty. An option proposed by Panama, backed by over 100 countries, would create a path for a global plastic production reduction target, while another proposal did not include production caps.
The fault line was apparent in a revised document released on Sunday by the chair of the meeting, Luis Vayas Valdivieso, which could form the basis of a treaty but remained riddled with many options on the most divisive issues: capping plastic production, managing plastic products and chemicals of concern, and financing to help developing countries implement the treaty.
Some negotiators and environmental groups observing the talks expressed profound disappointment.
“If you’re calling for a high, ambitious treaty, it means that (it’s) calling for obligations, commitments on the part of all parties,” said Dr. Sam Adu-Kumi, Lead Negotiator for Ghana.
If there was no such ambitious treaty, “it means that we have to go and come back another time, not Busan but maybe somewhere else,” Dr. Adu-Kumi told Reuters.
A smaller number of petrochemical-producing nations such as Saudi Arabia have strongly opposed efforts to target plastic production and have tried to use procedural tactics to delay negotiations.
Saudi Arabia did not have an immediate comment.
China, the United States, India, South Korea and Saudi Arabia were the top five primary polymer producing nations in 2023, according to data provider Eunomia.
“If you’re not contributing constructively, and if you’re not trying to join us in having an ambitious treaty… then please get out,” Fiji’s chief negotiator, Climate Minister Sivendra Michael, told a press conference.
HOURS REMAINING
With just hours remaining for scheduled talks and consensus seemingly out of reach, some negotiators and observers openly talked about what could happen next if negotiations collapsed or were extended to another session.
Even if a legally-binding treaty is not reached at Busan, “this is a multilateral process that can keep working towards that goal,” Mexico’s head of delegation, Camila Zepeda, told Reuters.
“We have … a coalition of the willing, over a hundred countries that want this, and we can start working together” on a way forward.
Some negotiators said a few countries were holding the proceedings hostage, avoiding compromises needed by using the U.N.’s consensus process, whereby all member states agree to adopt a text without a vote.
Senegal’s National Delegate Cheikh Ndiaye Sylla called it “a big mistake” to exclude voting during the entire negotiations, an agreement made last year during the second round of talks in Paris.
Plastic production is on track to triple by 2050, and microplastics have been found in air, fresh produce and even human breast milk.
Chemicals of concern in plastics include more than 3,200 found according to a 2023 U.N. Environment Programme report, which said women and children were particularly susceptible to their toxicity.
“If it (the text) does not have the provisions of what we expect from an ambitious treaty, then we will … go back to the same process pushing for an ambitious treaty,” Sivendra said.
“Nobody is going to leave Busan with a weak treaty.”
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/battle-over-curbing-plastic-output-jeopardises-un-treaty-hopes/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Former Australia Test opener Ian Redpath passes away at 83
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 11:25:45 +0000
Content: Former Australia Test opener Ian Redpath has passed away at the age of 83, said Cricket Australia (CA) on Sunday. Redpath was a regular fixture in the Australian team in the 1960s and 1970s, and served as a member of the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame.
Hailing from Geelong, Redpath played 66 Tests and made 4737 runs at an average of 43.45, including eight centuries and 31 half centuries with a top score of 171. He took 83 catches mostly in the slips where he excelled.
He made his Test debut at the MCG in the second game of the 1963-64 series against South Africa and contributed 97 to an opening partnership of 219 with fellow Victorian Bill Lawry. Redpath’s maiden Test century, 132 against the West Indies at the SCG, did not come until 1969.
But his patience and endurance had already become a trusted bulwark to some of the more flamboyant members of the Australian line-up. His seniority and leadership was acknowledged when he was made vice-captain to Ian Chappell of the Australian team for the home series against England in 1974-75 and to Greg Chappell for the series against the West Indies in 1975-76.
“Ian was a much loved and revered figure and everyone in Australian Cricket will be enormously saddened by his passing. As a fine opening batter, Ian was a mainstay of the national team through one of the great eras of Australian cricket and beloved by many throughout the world for his courage, impeccable sportsmanship and wry humour.”
“We were privileged to hear Ian speak of the wonderful experiences and relationships cricket had provided upon his induction into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame in 2023 and this deep love of the game was manifest in his enormous contribution to cricket at first-class and community level. The thoughts of everyone at Cricket Australia are with Ian’s family and many friends at this sad time,” said CA Chairman Mike Baird.
In first-class cricket, Redpath went on to make 14,993 runs for Victoria at an average of 41.99 with 32 centuries and 84 fifties in 226 first class matches. Redpath remained an active contributor to first-class and community cricket serving as Victorian men’s coach and in various voluntary roles in his home city, particularly with the Geelong Cricket Club.
In 1975, Redpath, who also played five ODIs for Australia, was made a Member of the Civil Division of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire for services to cricket. He once emerged from international retirement to join World Series Cricket where injury restricted his on-field contributions, and returned to retirement.
(IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/former-australia-test-opener-ian-redpath-passes-away-at-83/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Argentina HIV patients, medics fear impact of Milei’s spending cuts
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 11:13:28 +0000
Content: Argentines living with HIV/AIDS and medics say spending cuts under libertarian President Javier Milei are hurting treatment of the illness and could lead to more cases, with fewer condoms for prevention and fewer tests to catch the virus early.
The right-wing leader is pushing a major austerity drive, touting his “chainsaw” to cut back the size of the state and overturn a deep fiscal deficit he inherited. That has seen budgets frozen or capped for many public sector services.
The budget for free HIV/AIDS treatment, where Argentina is a regional pioneer, fell 67% in real terms in 2024 and is set to fall 46% in 2025. That has put strain on supply of key medicines and could leave thousands without care next year, experts said.
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a chronic condition caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Most people with HIV can live near-normal lives and not suffer from AIDS-related illness with effective early treatment.
“I’ve been taking expired medication since May. Now in October they gave me medication until February, which expired in November,” Claudio Mariani, 59, who was initially diagnosed as HIV positive in 1993, told Reuters.
“In my case, for example, I’m doing the viral load test now but I don’t know when I’ll have the results,” he added.
According to official government data there are around 140,000 people living with HIV in Argentina. Around half that number depend on public sector treatment, according to the Health Ministry’s latest Epidemiological Bulletin.
The government did not respond to requests for comment.
The Huésped Foundation, which works to ensure access to care for HIV/AIDS sufferers, said more than 9,000 people would see treatment interrupted in 2025 due to the spending cuts.
The government’s draft budget would see spending on the free HIV treatment service “Program 22” rise from 21 billion to 23 billion pesos ($23 million), which with inflation at likely over 100% means a significant real-terms spending cut.
This could see patients not being diagnosed or being caught late, ironically pushing up hospital costs, experts said.
“These people require hospitalization, treatment for infections and a range of medical care that could be avoided if diagnosis is made earlier,” explained Leandro Cahn, executive director of the Huésped Foundation.
“All these cuts, far from saving money… generate more costs,” he said.
Ministry of Health data show that already this year the number of condoms distributed by the government fell to 209,328 from 503,460 the previous year, with expected drops in the supply of reagents and rapid tests likely to hinder care.
“Treatment is something permanent,” local HIV specialist Luis Trombetta told Reuters, explaining that this consistency kept down the mortality rate. “It cannot be replaced or interrupted.”
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/argentina-hiv-patients-medics-fear-impact-of-mileis-spending-cuts/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Israeli strikes kill 15 in Gaza, Cairo holds fresh talks with Hamas
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 10:34:41 +0000
Content: Israeli military strikes killed at least 15 Palestinians in Gaza on Sunday, medics said, as Israeli forces kept up bombardments across the enclave and blew up houses on its northern edge.
In the central Gaza camp of Nuseirat, an Israeli airstrike killed six people in a house, and another attack killed three in a home in Gaza City, medics said.
Two children were killed when a missile hit a tent encampment in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip, while four other people were killed in an airstrike in Rafah, near the border with Egypt, medics told Reuters.
Residents said the military blew up clusters of houses in the northern Gaza areas of Jabalia, Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun, where Israeli forces have operated since October this year.
Palestinians say Israel’s operations on the northern edge of the enclave are part of a plan to clear people out through forced evacuations and bombardments to create a buffer zone – an allegation the army denies.
The military says it has killed hundreds of Hamas militants there as it fights to stop the faction regrouping almost 14 months since the war in Gaza started. Hamas’s armed wing says it has killed many Israeli forces in anti-tank rocket and mortar fire attacks, and in ambushes with explosive devices since the new operation started.
PRISONERS, TALKS
Two Palestinian detainees from Gaza have died in Israeli custody, prisoner advocacy groups said on Sunday, bringing the number of detainees reported killed since the start of the war to 47.
They named the two men as Mohammad Idris and Muath Rayyan, both in their 30s.
The Israel Prison Service said the cases were not under its jurisdiction and there was no immediate comment from the military which runs detention camps.
Israel has denied accusations from Palestinian and international human rights organizations that detainees have been mistreated and tortured in its jails and detention camps.
Meanwhile, Hamas leaders held talks in Cairo with Egyptian security officials to explore ways to reach a deal with Israel that could secure the release of hostages in return for Palestinian prisoners.
The visit was the first since the United States announced on Wednesday it would revive efforts in collaboration with Qatar, Egypt and Turkey to negotiate a ceasefire in Gaza.
Hamas is seeking an agreement that would end the war while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said the war will only end when Hamas is eradicated.
Israel’s military campaign in Gaza has killed more than 44,300 people and displaced nearly all of the enclave’s population, Gaza officials say. Vast swathes of Gaza lie in ruins.
The conflict when Hamas-led militants attacked southern Israeli communities on Oct. 7, 2023, killing about 1,200 people and abducting more than 250 hostages, according to Israeli officials.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/israeli-strikes-kill-15-in-gaza-cairo-holds-fresh-talks-with-hamas/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: “Naga culture is known for its spirit of duty, compassion”: PM Modi extends wishes on Nagaland Statehood Day
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 08:57:02 +0000
Content: Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended best wishes to the people of Nagaland on Statehood Day on Sunday and said that Naga culture is known for its “spirit of duty and compassion.”
“Greetings to the people of Nagaland on their Statehood Day. Nagaland is widely admired for its rich culture and the wonderful nature of people belonging to the state. Naga culture is known for its spirit of duty and compassion. Praying for Nagaland’s continuous progress in the times to come,” PM Modi posted on X.
Union Home Minister Amit Shah also extended greetings on Nagaland Day and said that Nagaland is blessed with a glorious culture and heritage.
“Warm greetings to our Naga sisters and brothers on Nagaland Day. Blessed with a glorious culture and heritage, Nagaland is a shining example of our diversity on Bharat’s rich cultural tapestry. I pray to God for the state to prosper under the leadership of Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio Ji,” Amit Shah posted on X.
BJP chief JP Nadda said that Nagaland is blessed with a mesmerizing landscape, rich traditions, and a deep cultural heritage.
“On Nagaland’s Statehood Day, I extend my warmest greetings to all my brothers and sisters of this vibrant state. Renowned as the ‘Land of Festivals,’ the state is blessed with a mesmerizing landscape, rich traditions, and a deep cultural heritage. May Nagaland continue to scale new heights of development, and may its people be blessed with good health and prosperity,” JP Nadda posted on X.
In 1957, Naga leaders and the central government reached an agreement to create a separate region of the Naga Hills. The State of Nagaland Act, 1962, was enacted by the Parliament to give Nagaland statehood.
It was formally recognized as a separate state on December 1, 1963, with Kohima being declared its capital.
(ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/naga-culture-is-known-for-its-spirit-of-duty-compassion-pm-modi-extends-wishes-on-nagaland-statehood-day/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Australia PM Albanese says Musk pushing agenda for X in social media ban criticism
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 08:08:01 +0000
Content: Australia Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said on Sunday that criticism by Elon Musk of Australia’s social media ban on children under 16 was the X owner pushing an agenda for the social platform, while indicating he was open to talk to the billionaire about the ban, legislated this week.
Australia approved the social media ban for children late on Thursday after an emotive debate that has gripped the nation, setting a benchmark for jurisdictions around the world with one of the toughest regulations targeting Big Tech.
The ban, which the centre-left government says is world-leading, could strain Australia’s relationship with key ally the United States, where Musk, a central figure in the administration of president-elect Donald Trump, said in a post this month it seemed a “backdoor way to control access to the Internet by all Australians”.
Albanese, asked on Sunday if he was prepared to talk to Musk about the social media ban said: “We’ll talk to anyone”.
“With regard to Elon Musk, he has an agenda, he’s entitled to push that as the owner of X, formerly known as Twitter,” Albanese added in remarks on Australian Broadcasting Corp. television.
The law forces tech giants from Instagram and Facebook owner Meta, to TikTok to stop minors logging in or face fines of up to A$49.5 million ($32 million). A trial of enforcement methods starts in January with the ban to take effect in a year.
“We are determined to get this done, the parliament has overwhelmingly passed this legislation,” Albanese told the broadcaster.
Albanese’s Labor party won crucial support from the opposition conservatives for the bill that was fast-tracked through the country’s parliament as part of 31 bills pushed through in a chaotic final day of parliament for the year.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/australia-pm-albanese-says-musk-pushing-agenda-for-x-in-social-media-ban-criticism/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Trump threatens 100 per cent tariffs against BRICS countries if they develop own currency
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 06:10:37 +0000
Content: US President-Elect Donald Trump has threatened to impose 100 per cent tariffs on BRICS countries if they develop a new currency or adopt another to replace “the mighty dollar” and effectively bar them from American markets.
“There is no chance that the BRICS will replace the US Dollar in International Trade, and any country that tries should wave goodbye to America,” he posted on Truth Social on Saturday.
Threatening to close the US market to India and the other eight members of BRICS, he wrote with misplaced capitalisation of words in his style, “We require a commitment from these countries that they will neither create a new BRICS Currency, nor back any other Currency to replace the mighty US Dollar or, they will face 100 per cent Tariffs, and should expect to say goodbye to selling into the wonderful US Economy.”
Trump’s warning to BRICS — after threatening higher tariffs on imports from China, Mexico, and Canada — is premature.
External Affairs Minister (EAM) S. Jaishankar has already categorically ruled out the idea of a common BRICS currency.
“There is no idea of a BRICS currency. Currencies will remain a national issue for a long time to come,” he said last year ahead of the group’s summit in Johannesburg.
India is the second-biggest economy in BRICS.
Brazil’s President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, nevertheless, went on to propose a common currency at the Johannesburg summit, but it has made no headway.
During his campaign, Trump had asserted that the dollar faced threats to its future as the world’s premier trading currency and said that President Joe Biden was ignoring it.
“The idea that the BRICS Countries are trying to move away from the Dollar while we stand by and watch is over,” he said in Truth Social post.
His warning to BRICS countries is more like a loyalty test to see which countries would publicly take the stand India already has and a pre-emptive warning to Beijing.
BRICS, an acronym from the names of its first set of members — Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa — expanded this year to include Iran, Egypt, Ethiopia, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Several other countries have applied to join BRICS, which is making headway as an economy-focused organisation of the Global South.
With members in a wide range of stages of economic development and types of economies, creating a common currency would be difficult.
Accepting the currency of one member as the group’s trading currency would be impossible.
China, which is the largest economy and the biggest trading country in the group, would tend to dominate with its yuan, which India and some of the other countries will resist.
The US-led sanctions on countries like Russia and Iran helped grow some bilateral trade in non-dollar currencies.
Fueled in part by US sanctions against Russia, India has paid for its oil imports from Russia with a mix of rupees and UAE dirham.
An Indian oil importer initially made some payments in yuan, and although Russia reportedly wanted payments in the Chinese currency, the Indian government has banned it, illustrating the difficulty of adopting a BRICS currency.
The European Union has the euro, but it is for a unified economic unit –which BRICS is not and cannot be — and most of their external trade is pegged to the dollar.
In addition to being the preferred currency for trade, the dollar is the main currency in which countries hold their reserves.
According to an International Monetary Fund publication in June, the dollar continues to have an “outsized role” in the world economy, but there has been an “ongoing gradual decline in the dollar’s share of allocated foreign reserves of central banks and governments.”
Now, about 60 per cent of the reserves are in dollars.
This relates to its role as the world currency reserve, and the decline is due to “fragmentations” and reserves being parked in currencies like the yuan, South Korean won, and the dollars of Singapore, Canada, and Australia.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/trump-threatens-100-per-cent-tariffs-against-brics-countries-if-they-develop-own-currency/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Their vigilance and courage contribute to safety, security of nation: PM Modi on BSF Raising Day
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 06:06:26 +0000
Content: Their vigilance and courage contribute to safety, security of nation: PM Modi on BSF Raising Day
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday conveyed his greetings on the occasion of BSF Raising Day saying their vigilance and courage contribute to the safety and security of the country.
The Border Security Force is celebrating its 60th Raising Day after it came into being in 1965.
The Prime Minister lauded their dedication and service. In his message, he highlighted the BSF’s role as a vital line of defence, commending their exceptional service.
PM Modi wrote on X, “Warm wishes to the Border Security Force on their Raising Day! 
The BSF stands as a critical line of defence, embodying courage, dedication and exceptional service. Their vigilance and courage contribute to the safety and security of our nation.”
The BSF while marking its day has stated that the force remains committed to their moto. “As #BSFturns60 today, we, the Seema Prahari, proudly rededicate ourselves to the service of our Nation. We remain steadfast in our commitment to uphold our motto.”
Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on the occasion that the soldiers never think twice about laying down their lives for the nation.
HM Shah wrote on X, “The soldiers of the @BSF_India have safeguarded the honor and the ambitions of Bharat with the fiercest determination, never thinking twice to lay down their lives for it. Their valor and sacrifices are the undying wellspring of inspiration that has raised generations of patriots to ensure that our nation continues to flourish forever. My solemn homage to the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty.”
Shobha Karandlaje, Union Minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Labour & Employment also extended her warm greetings to the courageous personnel of BSF.
She wrote on X, “…Your unwavering valor and sacrifices safeguard Bharat’s honour and inspire generations to serve selflessly. A heartfelt salute to the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice. Jai Hind.”
The BSF is the world’s largest border-guarding force securing the 6,386.36 km long International Borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh.
On the occasion of its Raising Day, the Border Security Force reiterated its commitment to the nation and its motto ‘lifelong duty’.
(IANS )
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/their-vigilance-and-courage-contribute-to-safety-security-of-nation-pm-modi-on-bsf-raising-day/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Interim govt failed to tackle law and order situation: Business leaders of Bangladesh
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 05:13:03 +0000
Content: In Bangladesh, the interim government has failed to tackle the country’s law and order situation, business leaders said on Saturday.  It will be difficult to maintain the economy if the situation does not improve soon, they expressed concerns at a business conference organised by the Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI) at a hotel in Dhaka, writes the Business Standard (TBS), a leading business daily of Bangladesh.
The government is trying to rebuild the institutions which were destroyed over the years, Selim RF Hossain, managing director of Brac Bank, said on the occasion. However, he stated that the government has failed to handle the law and order situation.
Hossain called on the government to fix the situation promptly. He warned that otherwise, it would be very, very difficult to pick up the economy, writes TBS.
Speaking at the programme, Incepta Pharmaceuticals Chairman Abdul Muktadir Rahman said, “The law and order situation has declined sharply. Nothing can be more important than this now.” He called on the government to fix a timeline to fix the situation, writes TBS.
“To reduce business costs and sustain industrial productivity the government must ensure uninterrupted gas and electricity supply while improving law enforcement,” said DCCI President Ashraf Ahmed. He also called for tax administration reforms, business process automation, and lower interest rates to support the private sector, especially small and medium enterprises, reports United News of Bangladesh (UNB).
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/interim-govt-failed-to-tackle-law-and-order-situation-business-leaders-of-bangladesh/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: 124 killed in sectarian violence in Pakistan
Publication Date: Sun, 01 Dec 2024 05:10:20 +0000
Content: The death toll of sectarian violence in Kurram district of Pakistan’s northwest Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province rose to 124, local administration said.
An official from the local administration of the district on Saturday said that the death toll rose after 16 more people died in armed clashes during the last 24 hours, adding that over 170 others were also injured, Xinhua news agency reported.
The majority of the injured are admitted to different hospitals including those who are in critical condition, added the official.
The violence started after armed men attacked a convoy of passenger vehicles coming from the Parachinar area in the Mandori Uchit area of the district on November 21, killing 52 people, including children and women.
The incident triggered armed clashes and attacks between two groups, including Shiite and Sunni Muslims, according to the official.
The tense situation and closure of the main highway have led to severe shortages of food, fuel, and medicine, as well as suspension of internet and mobile services, besides affecting daily life in the region as fear had gripped the population.
A high-level delegation of the provincial government visited the district after the attack on passenger coaches and held meetings with elders, leading to a ceasefire agreement, but clashes could not be stopped.
Deputy Commissioner of Kurram Javedullah Mehsud told media that efforts are being made to ensure a ceasefire by involving elders from both sides to announce a ceasefire after both sides refused to pay heed to the ceasefire arranged by the government delegation.
(IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/124-killed-in-sectarian-violence-in-pakistan/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 02:48:06

Title: Cyclone Fengal weakens, heavy rainfall continues in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 06:29:55 +0000
Content: Cyclone Fengal, which made landfall on Saturday, has caused extensive flooding and disruption in the region. The cyclone has weakened into a depression, moving west-northwestward at a speed of 7 km/h and is expected to dissipate into a well-marked low-pressure area over north interior Tamil Nadu, the Indian Meteorological Department said.
Cyclone’s Current Status
As of 11:30 PM on December 1, the depression was centered near latitude 12.2°N and longitude 79.2°E, approximately 40 km northwest of Villupuram, 70 km west-northwest of Puducherry, 80 km northwest of Cuddalore, and 140 km southwest of Chennai. The IMD anticipates the system will emerge over the southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea off the north Kerala-Karnataka coasts by December 3. The Karaikal Doppler Weather Radar is closely monitoring the system.
Record Rainfall in Puducherry
Puducherry has experienced unprecedented rainfall, recording 48.6 cm in the last 24 hours. Lieutenant Governor Kailashnathan said, “This has been one of the highest rainfalls in Puducherry. In the last 24 hours, we recorded 48.6 cm of rainfall. The drainage infrastructure is not capable of draining such a large quantity of downpour in a day. Electric substations have been submerged, and we had to shut down the power supply. A lot of trees have fallen, many on electric lines, and those lines need to be restored. By tonight, all substations will be re-energized.”
Impact Across Tamil Nadu
Heavy rains have been lashing Tamil Nadu since Saturday morning, with Cuddalore witnessing severe flooding. A red alert was issued for Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, and Puducherry, while other districts like Chennai, Chengalpattu, Ranipet, Dharmapuri, Salem, and parts of the Karaikal region also braced for heavy showers.
The incessant rain caused extensive flooding in low-lying areas of Chennai, particularly in Korattur, Koyambedu, Virugambakkam, Nungambakkam, T. Nagar, and Alwarpet. The disruption led to flight operations at Chennai International Airport and local EMU train services. Airport operations resumed on Sunday morning after the cyclone subsided.
Kerala on High Alert
Kerala has also been impacted by the remnants of Cyclone Fengal. The IMD has issued a red alert for Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, and Kannur, warning of extremely heavy rainfall. An orange alert is in place for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, and Thrissur, while a yellow alert covers Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Palakkad, and northern districts.
The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has cautioned residents about potential waterlogging and traffic disruptions.
Schools and Colleges Closed
All educational institutions in Wayanad, including anganwadis and professional colleges, will remain closed on Monday, with the exception of Model Residential Schools.
Authorities in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have also declared holidays for schools and colleges in affected districts. Educational institutions in Villupuram, Cuddalore, Vellore, and Ranipet will also remain closed on Monday.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/cyclone-fengal-weakens-heavy-rainfall-continues-in-tamil-nadu-and-puducherry/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: Moment of immense responsibility and opportunity: Jay Shah outlines goals as ICC chair
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 06:20:08 +0000
Content: Former Secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), Jay Shah, began his tenure as the Chairperson of the International Cricket Council (ICC) on Sunday, describing it as a “moment of immense responsibility and opportunity.”  
In a post on X, Shah said, “I am deeply honoured to begin my role as ICC Chair today. Cricket is a sport that unites millions across the globe, and this is a moment of immense responsibility and opportunity.”  
He emphasized his commitment to fostering the global growth of cricket, working collaboratively with member nations to enhance the sport’s reach and explore new avenues for development. “As we enter a transformative phase for cricket, I am committed to working closely with the ICC team and Member countries to grow the game’s global footprint and create new avenues for its development,” he added.  
Shah outlined his vision of making cricket accessible to a wider audience, from grassroots initiatives to marquee events. He also reaffirmed his dedication to preserving the stature of Test cricket, calling it the “pinnacle of the game,” while pledging to expand women’s cricket, which he described as the “cornerstone” of the growth strategy.  
“From grassroots initiatives to marquee events, my vision is to make cricket accessible to more people while ensuring its evolution meets the aspirations of fans worldwide,” he said.  
Shah also thanked member boards for their trust and support, promising to work together to elevate cricket to unprecedented heights and inspire the next generation.  
The ICC highlighted Shah’s focus on leveraging cricket’s inclusion in the Los Angeles 2028 Olympic Games as a pivotal opportunity while accelerating the growth of women’s cricket. Shah, who succeeded Greg Barclay as ICC Chair, acknowledged his predecessor’s contributions over the past four years.  
“I thank Greg Barclay for his leadership and the milestones achieved during his tenure. I look forward to collaborating with the ICC team and Member countries to expand the game’s global reach and potential,” Shah remarked.  
A veteran cricket administrator, Shah began his journey in 2009 with the Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA), where he oversaw the development of the world’s largest cricket stadium in Ahmedabad. He later became the youngest-ever honorary Secretary of the BCCI in 2019.  
Shah was elected unopposed as ICC Chair in August 2024, following Barclay’s decision not to seek a third term.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/moment-of-immense-responsibility-and-opportunity-jay-shah-outlines-goals-as-icc-chair/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: Nepal PM Oli embarks on four-day official visit to China
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 06:13:02 +0000
Content: Prime Minister of Nepal, KP Sharma Oli, departed for Beijing this morning on a four-day official visit to China. The visit, scheduled from December 2 to 5, is at the cordial invitation of Chinese Premier Li Qiang. During his time in China, PM Oli is set to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing.
The Nepali Prime Minister will engage in talks with his Chinese counterpart, Premier Li Qiang, to discuss a wide range of issues of mutual interest. Additionally, Chairman of the Standing Committee of China’s National People’s Congress, Zhao Leji, is also scheduled to meet PM Oli.
As part of his visit, Prime Minister Oli will address a program at Peking University and will speak at the Nepal-China Business Forum, a joint event organized by the Embassy of Nepal in Beijing, the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade, and the Federation of Nepalese Chambers of Commerce and Industry.
PM Oli is accompanied by his spouse, Radhika Shakya, and a delegation that includes Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Arzu Rana Deuba, Chief Advisor Bishnu Prasad Rimal, Economic and Development Advisor Dr. Yubaraj Khatiwada, as well as parliamentarians, high-ranking government officials, private sector representatives, and media personnel.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepal-pm-oli-embarks-on-four-day-official-visit-to-china/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: Gambit or gamble: Russia, Ukraine, Iran and North Korea raise the nuclear stakes
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 06:07:25 +0000
Content: On 19 November, the Ukraine — Russia Conflict completed a thousand days. However, the day made news for two other reasons: One, Ukraine hit Russia with the longest-range U.S. missiles for the very first time. And two, Russia announced its new nuclear doctrine.
The updated doctrine establishes a framework for conditions under which the President of Russia could order a nuclear strike. The biggest change was that Russia could consider a nuclear attack in response to a conventional attack on Russia or its ally Belarus that created a critical threat to their sovereignty or territorial integrity.
The previous iteration of the doctrine, contained in a 2020 decree, had said that Russia may use nuclear weapons in case of a nuclear attack by an enemy, or, a conventional attack that threatened the existence of the state.
So, by replacing the words ‘existence of the state’ with ‘sovereignty or territorial integrity’, Russia has effectively lowered the threshold for a nuclear strike in response to a broader range of conventional attacks.
The new doctrine announced by President Vladimir Putin says that any attack by a non-nuclear power, supported by a nuclear power, would be considered a joint attack. Also, any attack by one member of a military bloc would be considered an attack by the entire alliance.
Moscow claims that Ukraine could not have launched those missiles without U.S. support and therefore it makes the U.S. become directly involved in the Ukraine — Russia Conflict.
Two days later, on 21 November, Russia fired a new experimental hypersonic missile at Ukraine. It was called the Oreshnik, which means a Hazel Tree in Russian. A hypersonic missile is one that can travel at 5 times the speed of sound, that is 6 thousand 2 hundred kilometres per hour.
The Oreshnik carried six warheads. Putin says that the weapon travelled at a speed of Mach 10 or 10 times the speed of sound. He claims that there is no technology currently available that can counter the Oreshnik.
Russia is also putting its Sarmat Inter-Continental Ballistic Missiles on combat alert. The Sarmat, dubbed Satan-2 by the media, is a key element of Russia’s nuclear arsenal. It is capable of wielding up to 16 nuclear warheads and striking anywhere from nearly 18-thousand kilometres away.
That’s not all.
The New York Times newspaper cited unidentified Western officials as saying that the U.S. could give Ukraine nuclear weapons. Moscow says that such an idea is suicidal.
A Putin aide, Dmitry Medvedev, warns that Moscow could consider such a transfer to be tantamount to an attack on Russia, and retaliate with a nuclear weapon.
Ukraine inherited nuclear weapons from the erstwhile Soviet Union after its 1991 collapse but it gave them up under a 1994 agreement — called the Budapest Memorandum — in return for security assurances from Russia, the U.S. and the U.K.
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has repeatedly complained that doing so left his country without security, which is why he argues that Ukraine should be admitted to the NATO military alliance, something that Moscow opposes.
Ukraine using the longest-range U.S. missiles for the first time, Russia revising its nuclear doctrine and talk of the U.S. giving Ukraine nuclear weapons have all raised anxieties about the potential for a nuclear conflict. So is the world really on the brink of a nuclear conflict? A third World War? What will happen if North Korea conducts a seventh nuclear test? Or Iran changes its nuclear policy?
Iran’s Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi is saying that the nuclear debate inside Iran is likely to shift towards the possession of its own weapons, if the West goes ahead with a threat to re-impose all sanctions.
“So I can tell you, quite frankly, that there is this debate going on in Iran, and mostly among the elites – even among the ordinary people — whether we should change this policy or not, whether we should change our nuclear doctrine, as some say, or not, because it has proved insufficient in practice.”
Kamal Kharrazi, an adviser to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, says that Iran has the capacity to produce nuclear weapons but, for the moment, the Fatwa against the possession of nuclear weapons could only be changed by Khamenei.
As for North Korea, a U.S. diplomat says that Pyongyang is only a political decision away from carrying out its seventh nuclear test.
“The United States assesses that (North Korea) has prepared its Punggye-ri test site for its potential seventh explosive nuclear test,” says Alexandra Bell, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state for nuclear affairs.
The diplomat tells a conference organised by the Korea Society in Washington, D.C. that such a test would constitute a grave escalation of tensions in the region and present a security risk to the entire world.
In the days leading up to the U.S. presidential election, North Korea test-fired an inter-continental ballistic missile for the first time in almost a year. The missile flew for 85 minutes — the longest duration registered yet in any such test by Pyongyang. In addition to the I.C.B.M., North Korea test-fired multiple short-range ballistic missiles just before the U.S. election.
North Korea’s previous nuclear test, conducted in September 2017, was by far its most powerful ever. It took place in the first year of Donald Trump’s presidency, before he and Kim Jong-un held a maiden U.S. — North Korean summit at Singapore in 2018.
The awarding of the 2024 Nobel Peace Prize to a grassroots movement of atomic-bomb survivors from Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan reflects a widely held fear that the planet has never been closer to a nuclear war. The citation reads that the Prize was awarded to the Nihon Hidankyo “for its efforts to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons and for demonstrating through witness testimony that nuclear weapons must never be used again”.
Next year will mark the 80th anniversary of the dropping of nuclear bombs by the U.S. on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945 that forced Japan’s surrender.
Will the world take heed?
By: Ramesh Ramachandran (DDIndia)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/gambit-or-gamble-russia-ukraine-iran-and-north-korea-raise-the-nuclear-stakes/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: At least 25 killed as Russian, Syrian jets intensify bombing of Syrian rebel territory
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 05:59:22 +0000
Content: At least 25 people were killed in northwestern Syria in air strikes carried out by the Syrian government and Russia, the Syrian opposition-run rescue service known as the White Helmets said early on Monday.
Russian and Syrian jets struck the rebel-held city of Idlib in northern Syria on Sunday, military sources said, as President Bashar al-Assad vowed to crush insurgents who had swept into the city of Aleppo.
The army also said it had recaptured several towns that rebels had overrun in recent days.
Residents said one attack hit a crowded residential area in the centre of Idlib, the largest city in a rebel enclave near the Turkish border where around four million people live in makeshift tents and dwellings.
At least seven people were killed and dozens injured, according to rescuers at the scene. The Syrian army and its ally Russia say they target the hideouts of insurgent groups and deny attacking civilians.
Ten children were among the dead in the air strikes in and around Idlib and other targets in rebel-held territory near Aleppo on Sunday, according the White Helmets.
The total death toll from Syrian and Russian strikes since Nov. 27 had climbed to 56, including 20 children, the group added in a statement on X.
The insurgents are a coalition of Turkey-backed mainstream secular armed groups along with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, an Islamist group that has been designated a terrorist outfit by the U.S., Russia, Turkey and other states.
The insurgents seized control of all of Idlib province in recent days, the boldest rebel assault for years in a civil war where front lines had largely been frozen since 2020.
Insurgents also swept into the city of Aleppo, east of Idlib, on Friday night, forcing the army to redeploy.
In remarks published on state media, Assad said: “Terrorists only know the language of force and it is the language we will crush them with”.
The Syrian army said dozens of its soldiers had been killed in the fighting in Aleppo.
Russian war bloggers reported on Sunday that Moscow had dismissed Sergei Kisel, the general in charge of its forces in Syria, after insurgents swept into Aleppo. Reuters has requested comment from the Russian defence ministry.
In a joint statement, the United States, France, Germany, and Britain urged “de-escalation by all parties and the protection of civilians and infrastructure to prevent further displacement and disruption of humanitarian access”.
LEAVING ALEPPO
Inside Aleppo city, streets were mostly empty and many shops were closed on Sunday as scared residents stayed at home. There was still a heavy flow of civilians leaving the city, witnesses and residents said.
Rebel fighters waving the opposition flag drove through the city, Yusuf Khatib, a resident, told Reuters by phone. Some rebels took up positions on street intersections, he added.
Ahmad Tutenji, a merchant in the affluent New Aleppo neighbourhood, said he was surprised how quickly the army left. “I am shocked at how they fled and abandoned us.”
Abdullah al Halabi, a pensioner whose neighbourhood was bombed near the central area of Qasr al Baladi, said people were terrified they would see a repeat of the Russian-led bombing that killed thousands of people before driving out rebels a decade ago.
Syrian troops who had withdrawn from the city were now regrouping and reinforcements were also being sent to help in the counter-attack, army sources said.
Aleppo had been firmly held by the government since a 2016 victory there, one of the war’s major turning points, when Russian-backed Syrian forces besieged and laid waste to rebel-held eastern areas of what had been the country’s largest city.
Rebels said on Sunday they had pushed further south of Aleppo city and captured the town of Khansir in an attempt to cut the army’s main supply route to Aleppo city.
Rebel sources said they had also captured Sheikh Najjar estate, one of the country’s major industrial zones.
The war, which has killed hundreds of thousands of people and displaced many millions, has ground on since 2011 with no formal end. Most heavy fighting halted years ago after Iran-backed militias and Russian air power helped Assad win control of all major cities.
A lack of that manpower contributed to the speedy retreat of Syrian army forces in recent days, according to two army sources.
The rebel gains came after Israel stepped up its strikes on Iranian bases in Syria and Iran-backed Hezbollah forces in Lebanon. Militias allied to Iran, led by Hezbollah, have had a strong presence in the Aleppo area.
Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi, visiting Damascus on Sunday, said the situation in Syria was “difficult” but the Assad government would prevail.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/at-least-25-killed-as-russian-syrian-jets-intensify-bombing-of-syrian-rebel-territory/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: Sensex, Nifty fall as lower GDP numbers weigh on investor sentiment
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 05:48:59 +0000
Content: India’s benchmark indices were subdued on Monday after the release of lower-than-expected GDP figures on Friday.
The Nifty 50 opened with a modest gain of 9 points at 24,140, while the Sensex dropped 58 points, starting at 79,743.87.
By 9:42 am, the Sensex had declined further by 140.80 points, or 0.18%, to 79,661.99, and the Nifty had slipped 12.25 points, or 0.05%, to 24,118.85.
On the National Stock Exchange, 1,254 stocks advanced, while 1,076 declined.
India’s economy grew by 5.4% year-on-year in the July-September quarter, according to data released on Friday. This growth figure fell short of the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) forecast of 7%.
The combination of subdued GDP data and weak second-quarter corporate earnings contributed to increased selling pressure.
Among sectoral indices, Nifty Auto, Media, Metal, Pharma, and Realty saw gains, while Nifty Bank, FMCG, IT, and Oil & Gas sectors posted losses.
Among the Nifty 50 constituents, only 15 stocks advanced, while 34 declined. Shares of Adani Green Energy surged by over 6%.
Ajay Bagga, a banking and market expert, said, “The lower-than-expected GDP number is weighing on Indian markets. While GDP is a lagging indicator and largely factored in, weak corporate earnings indicate slow growth.”
He added, “Without counter-cyclical fiscal and monetary measures, GDP may remain stagnant, further elevating market valuations and creating pressure.”
The Reserve Bank of India is expected to lower the cash reserve ratio (CRR) in its upcoming monetary policy meeting on December 6, which could provide some relief to banking stocks. However, with CPI inflation at 6.2%, interest rate cuts remain unlikely.
In broader Asian markets, Taiwan’s Weighted Index rose by over 2%, while Japan’s Nikkei 225, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng, and South Korea’s KOSPI traded flat.

(With input from agencies)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/sensex-nifty-fall-as-lower-gdp-numbers-weigh-on-investor-sentiment/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: Chinks in Xi’s armour: Xi Jinping’s trusted aides falling like ninepins
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 05:39:58 +0000
Content: First it was his hand-picked foreign minister Qin Gang. Then it was Defence Minister Gen. Li Shangfu, a protege of his childhood friend. And now it’s his close aide Admiral Miao Hua. One by one, Xi Jinping’s trusted lieuemants and aides are falling like ninepins.
That not all is right in the higher echelons of the Chinese government can be had from the fact that in the last one year alone, 20 military personnel have been removed.
Chinese Defence Ministry Spokesperson Wu Qian says that the Chinese Communist Party has decided to suspend Admiral Miao from duty pending an investigation for, quote-unquote, serious breach of discipline. A “serious breach of discipline” is nothing but code for corruption.
Admiral Miao is the latest Chinese Government official to be sacked by President Xi Jinping. His fall from grace is all the more shocking because it was Xi himself who had promoted him in 2015 and made him the youngest serving Admiral in the Chinese Navy.
Admiral Miao was no ordinary officer. He was heading the Political Work Department of China’s Central Military Commission, which oversees party ideology and personnel changes.  It’s the apex body of China’s military leadership. And Xi Jinping chairs it. So, a Central Military Commission membership means direct access to Xi.
The 69-year-old Admiral spent years doing party work in the south-eastern coastal province of Fujian but his career took off only after Xi came to power in 2012. His time in Fujian overlapped with Xi’s years there. Xi rose from being a party official to the Governor of the province between 1999 and 2002.
The Admiral was last seen in public on 7 October, when he attended the 70th anniversary celebration of a State-run para-military organisation in Xinjiang.
Admiral Miao is the second Central Military Commission member to be removed from office since the current line-up took office in 2022. The first was former defence minister Gen. Li Shangfu, who was sacked in October 2023. Both Li and his predecessor, Gen. Wei Fenghe, were expelled from the party in June this year for, quote-unquote, “serious violations of discipline”.
According to a media report, it has left the seven-member Central Military Commission chaired by Xi Jinping with a rare double vacancy and only two serving members, apart from Xi and the two vice-chairpersons. It’s a situation not seen in decades.
The Admiral’s sacking comes close on the heels of a report published by the Financial Times newspaper of the U.K. that China’s current defence minister, Admiral Dong Jun, is being investigated for alleged corruption. Admiral Dong was also appointed by Xi Jinping.
Christopher Johnson, a former analyst with U.S. spy agency Central Intelligence Agency, tells Financial Times that the development raises concerns about how Xi is picking his defence ministers. “Xi bucked tradition in 2018 by naming Wei, from the P.L.A. Rocket Forces, to the post instead of an Army General. With Dong, a Navy man, Xi’s military personnel dons assured him the vetting was airtight after a four-month search. So Xi is left to wonder, what corner of the P.L.A. is not corrupt?”
The recent sackings raise more questions.
Is corruption eroding China’s combat readiness?
Is Xi really rooting out corruption or using his anti-corruption drive as a ruse to purge his political rivals?
Joel Wuthnow, a senior research fellow at National Defence University in the U.S. tells A.F.P. news agency that it has to be a huge distraction for Xi as he presses his military to be ready for a war with Taiwan by 2027. Xi has vowed that the re-unification of Taiwan with the Chinese Mainland is inevitable. He has pledged to take all measures necessary to achieve that goal. The sacking of key Chinese defence personnel comes at a time when Beijing is increasing military pressure on Taiwan and ratcheting up the tensions in the contested waters of the Indo-Pacific.
Meanwhile, Defence Minister Admiral Dong Jun’s case is getting curiouser and curiouser. Chinese Defence Ministry Spokesperson Wu Qian says that the Minister remains in his position and that the Financial Times report is a fabrication
A former Navy chief, Admiral Dong was last seen outside China on 21 November when he delivered a speech at the Asean Defence Ministers’ Meeting in Lao P.D.R.’s capital Vientiane. He declined to meet his U.S. counterpart Gen. Lloyd Austin on the margins of that meeting citing U.S. actions over Taiwan but he did hold talks with the defence ministers of India, New Zealand and Malaysia. In fact, it was the first meeting between India’s Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Admiral Dong after India and China agreed in October to end a four-year-long military standoff. It was also the first such meeting after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Xi Jinping met on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Russia.
The Chinese defence minister has traditionally been a member of both the Central Military Commission and the State Council, which is China’s cabinet-level executive body. Former defence ministers Gen. Li and Gen. Wei were both members of the Central Military Commission. They were both State Councillors, too. However, Admiral Dong was neither promoted to the Central Military Commission at a Communist Party meeting held this year nor was he appointed to the State Council during a Government reshuffle in March.
 
Admiral Dong replaced Gen. Li as defence minister in December 2023. Gen. Li was himself removed seven months into the job for allegedly taking bribes in exchange for granting favours in violation of military and party discipline. Gen. Wei was defence minister for five years prior to that, until he was accused of similar charges and placed under investigation for, quote-unquote, “seriously violating political and organisational discipline by helping others gain improper benefits in personnel arrangements.”
Both Gen. Li and Gen. Wei have since been expelled from the Communist Party of China. They are being investigated for corruption.
What is also common to Gen. Li and Gen. Wei is that both were associated with China’s Rocket Force. While Gen. Wei used to head it, Gen. Li headed a department that developed weapons, including missiles. Xi Jinping set up the Rocket Force in 2016 to oversee China’s nuclear and conventional missiles. A Bloomberg report cites U.S. intelligence as saying that corruption in the Rocket Force led to malfunctioning equipment and even missile fuel being replaced with water! 
Incidentally, many more personnel from the Rocket Force have been sacked. The Rocket Force chief Gen. Li Yuchao was sacked in July 2023 along with his Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Sun Jinming. Both were expelled from the party and investigated for corruption. Also sacked were Gen. Li Yuchao’s deputy Gen. Liu Guangbin and a former deputy Lt. Gen. Zhang Zhenzhong.
Three senior officials were also removed from their posts at state-owned missile defence organisations in December 2023.
Neil Thomas, a fellow on Chinese politics at the New York City-headquartered Asia Society, says that “the rot in China’s military remains even  deeper than previously suspected”.
Heather Williams from the Washington, D.C.-based Centre for Strategic and International Studies says that “corruption in the Chinese military rightly should raise questions about its ability to achieve military objectives and reach the ‘great rejuvenation’ envisioned by Xi”.
Little wonder then that a recent statement issued by the Central Military Commission reads that “senior party committees and senior cadres of the Army must take the lead in respecting, studying, obeying and applying the law.”
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/chinks-in-xis-armour-xi-jinpings-trusted-aides-falling-like-ninepins/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: Union environment minister champions green initiatives ahead of UNCCD COP16 in Riyadh
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 05:27:25 +0000
Content: In a symbolic gesture promoting environmental consciousness, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Bhupender Yadav, planted a sapling at the Indian Embassy in Riyadh before the commencement of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification’s COP16. The tree-planting ceremony aligned with India’s “Ek Ped Maa Ke Naam” (A Tree in Mother’s Name) initiative, emphasizing the country’s commitment to environmental stewardship.
During his visit to the embassy, Minister Yadav engaged with Indian students, encouraging their participation in both the tree-planting campaign and Mission LiFE (Lifestyle for Environment), while emphasizing the importance of incorporating eco-friendly practices into their daily routines.
The UNCCD COP16, marking its historic debut in West Asia, opens today in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, coinciding with the convention’s 30th anniversary. The conference brings together representatives from 197 nations, with India’s delegation, jointly led by Minister Yadav and Haryana Chief Minister Nayab Singh Saini, set to showcase the ambitious Aravalli Green Wall Project at the IUCN Pavilion. This transformative initiative aims to restore 1.15 million hectares of degraded landscape across four states in northwestern India, demonstrating the country’s commitment to combating desertification and land degradation.
The minister’s pre-conference activities and India’s planned presentation of the Aravalli Green Wall Project underscore the nation’s proactive stance in addressing global environmental challenges while fostering environmental awareness among its diaspora.
By: Vinod Kumar (UAE)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/union-environment-minister-champions-green-initiatives-ahead-of-unccd-cop16-in-riyadh/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: UN refugee agency halts Gaza aid deliveries amid rampant looting
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 05:19:54 +0000
Content: The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA) has suspended its aid operations through the Kerem Shalom crossing into Gaza following a series of armed robberies that have disrupted humanitarian assistance to the besieged territory. The decision comes after armed gangs seized an entire convoy of aid trucks on November 16, followed by another raid on food trucks on November 29.
UNRWA officials cite multiple challenges hampering their humanitarian mission, including the ongoing siege of Gaza, Israeli restrictions on aid quantities, the targeting of local police, and widespread looting. According to UN estimates, more than a third of aid entering Gaza is being stolen, with much of the organized looting occurring in zones under Israeli military drone surveillance but lacking ground troops.
Aid agencies have criticized Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories(COGAT), the Israeli military agency responsible for coordinating humanitarian assistance, for failing to prevent the criminal gangs’ activities. The situation has been exacerbated by the escape of hundreds of convicted criminals from prisons early in the conflict, following bombing raids and the departure of police forces.
The crisis comes amid heightened tensions between Israel and UNRWA. In October, the Israeli Knesset passed a resolution to ban the agency from operating in Israel and end cooperation with the organization. Israel has long criticized UNRWA, established by the UN in 1949, accusing it of anti-Israel bias and claiming it perpetuates the Palestinian refugee situation by maintaining their permanent refugee status.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/un-refugee-agency-halts-gaza-aid-deliveries-amid-rampant-looting/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: GCC Summit calls for Gaza ceasefire, champions regional digital transformation
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 05:09:23 +0000
Content: The 45th Gulf Cooperation Council Summit, held in Kuwait on December 1, concluded with the Kuwait Declaration, emphasizing urgent action to end the Gaza conflict and reaffirming support for Palestinian sovereignty. The declaration called for an independent Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital, encompassing territories occupied since June 1967.
In response to ongoing regional tensions, GCC leaders strongly condemned Israel’s military actions in Gaza, Lebanon, and the West Bank, including violations at Jerusalem’s holy sites. They praised Qatar’s mediation efforts in securing ceasefire agreements and facilitating detainee exchanges. The leaders expressed particular concern about Israeli aggression in Lebanon, warning of potential regional escalation and calling for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1701.
Beyond regional security, the summit highlighted the GCC’s expanding role in addressing global challenges. Leaders emphasized the region’s growing prominence as a business and economic hub, focusing on sustainable economic diversification and digital transformation. The declaration outlined ambitious plans for developing unified digital markets, advancing e-commerce, and strengthening cybersecurity cooperation among member states.
The summit also acknowledged the importance of strategic investments in artificial intelligence and cybersecurity, positioning the GCC at the forefront of global digital innovation. Leaders emphasized the need to balance technological advancement with environmental and social sustainability while maintaining the region’s cultural identity and Islamic values.
The declaration concluded by reaffirming the GCC’s commitment to peaceful diplomacy, state sovereignty, and international law, while emphasizing the crucial role of women’s empowerment and youth engagement in the region’s future development.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/gcc-summit-calls-for-gaza-ceasefire-champions-regional-digital-transformation/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 07:37:40

Title: Govt withdraws windfall tax on ATF, crude, petrol, and diesel, easing burden on oil companies
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 13:26:00 +0000
Content: The government on Monday announced the withdrawal of the windfall tax on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF), crude oil, petrol, and diesel through a notification introduced in the Lok Sabha.
The decision comes as a major relief for oil companies like Reliance Industries and ONGC, which had been bearing the burden of the tax since its imposition in July 2022. The windfall tax was initially introduced to capture a portion of the excess revenue earned by oil companies due to soaring global crude prices and higher refining margins.
The removal of the tax is expected to boost profits for these companies, particularly in refining operations.
According to the Ministry of Finance notification, the Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED)—commonly referred to as the windfall tax—on the production of petroleum crude and the export of ATF, petrol, and high-speed diesel will no longer apply.
The windfall tax, which was reviewed every 15 days based on fluctuations in global crude oil prices, had been adjusted fortnightly by the Department of Revenue to align with international oil market trends.
However, with crude oil prices stabilizing and declining in recent months, the revenue generated from the tax had significantly diminished. This prompted the government to scrap the levy, recognizing that its continuation was no longer economically viable.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/govt-withdraws-windfall-tax-on-atf-crude-petrol-and-diesel-easing-burden-on-oil-companies/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: India’s organic food products export reaches $448 Mn, set to surpass last year’s figures
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 12:59:05 +0000
Content: India’s organic food products export reached $447.73 million in the first eight months of this fiscal (FY25) and is on track to surpass last year’s total export of $494.80 million, the Parliament was informed on Monday.
In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Union Minister of Food Processing Industries, Navneet Singh Bittu, stated that 263,050 metric tonnes (MT) of organic food products have been exported as of November 25 this year.
While the Ministry of Food Processing Industries has not allocated specific funds to incentivize industries producing organic products, the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, provides financial assistance to its member exporters, including those exporting organic food products.
APEDA is implementing the National Programme for Organic Production (NPOP), which involves the accreditation of certification bodies, development of standards for organic production, and promotion of organic farming and marketing. Under this programme, India has 1,016 organic-certified processing units.
In September, APEDA partnered with global retail chain LuLu Group International (LLC) to showcase Indian organic products in its stores across the United Arab Emirates (UAE). This partnership aims to connect Indian organic growers, including Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), Farmer Producer Companies (FPCs), and cooperatives, with global markets, ensuring wider reach for certified Indian organic products.
The authority is also committed to promoting Indian agro and processed food exports by organizing B2B exhibitions in various countries, exploring new potential markets, and collaborating with Indian embassies to promote natural, organic, and Geographical Indication (GI)-tagged agro-products.
Minister Bittu emphasized the significant global demand for organic products and India’s role as a key supplier, stating that these efforts are expected to strengthen the country’s agricultural export base further.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indias-organic-food-products-export-reaches-448-mn-set-to-surpass-last-years-figures/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: Markets rally amid positive cues; Sensex, Nifty surge ahead
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 12:21:28 +0000
Content: India’s benchmark indices closed higher on Monday, recovering from a subdued start. Both benchmark indices posted notable gains, reflecting strong investor sentiment 
 
The Sensex rose by 445.29 points (0.56%) to settle at 80,248.08, while the Nifty 50 advanced by 142.90 points (0.59%) to close at 24,274.00. Out of the 50 Nifty-listed stocks, 31 ended in the positive territory, while 18 saw declines.
 
Top-performing stocks included Ultratech Cement, Apollo Hospitals, Grasim Industries, Shri Ram Finance, and JSW Steel. These companies led gains across construction, healthcare, and financial sectors, boosting market sentiment.
 
Meanwhile, HDFC Life, NTPC, Cipla, SBI Life, and Hindustan Unilever were among the key laggards, reflecting mixed investor sentiments in some sectors.
 
Market analysts attributed the recovery to favorable global cues and resilient domestic fundamentals. Gains in the core sector output for October further supported optimism. “Despite a slowdown in Q2 growth, the market retained a positive bias. Mid and small-caps are also showing signs of recovery,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services.
 
However, caution lingers as the Reserve Bank of India’s upcoming policy meeting could bring revisions to GDP forecasts. Nair noted that while inflation dynamics are unfavorable for a rate cut, the RBI may adopt a more realistic growth projection for FY25.
 
Adding to the discussion, VLA Ambala, Co-Founder of Stock Market Today, highlighted India’s strategic economic position. “India is poised for manufacturing growth but requires significant investment and management. The recent decision to opt out of the RCEP reflects a push for self-reliance but adds market pressure,” Ambala said.
 
(ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/markets-rally-amid-positive-cues-sensex-nifty-surge-ahead/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: PM Modi attends ‘The Sabarmati Report’ screening at Parliament’s Auditorium
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 12:15:40 +0000
Content: Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the screening of the film ‘The Sabarmati Report’ at the Balyogi Auditorium in Parliament House on Monday afternoon. Accompanying him were Information and Broadcasting Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi.  
 
Several prominent leaders, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also atteneded the screening.
 
The film, starring Vikrant Massey, is based on the tragic burning of the S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express near Godhra station on February 27, 2002. Directed by Dheeraj Sarna, it explores the events surrounding the incident and pays tribute to the 59 victims.  
 
Praised for its thorough research and poignant storytelling, ‘The Sabarmati Report’ has been declared tax-free in several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Odisha. Ektaa Kapoor, one of the producers, highlighted the year-long research process that went into creating the film, saying, “This movie unveils the truth behind the tragedy with meticulous accuracy.”  
 
The movie has garnered widespread acclaim, including from BJP MP and actress Hema Malini, and Chief Ministers such as Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Pramod Sawant (Goa), and Nayab Saini (Haryana).  
 
Prime Minister Modi himself praised the film on social media, commenting on the trailer, “It is good that this truth is coming out in a way that is accessible to everyone. A fake narrative can only last so long—facts eventually prevail.”  
 
Produced by Balaji Motion Pictures and Vikir Films Production, the movie features a stellar cast, including Ridhi Dogra and Raashii Khanna, alongside Vikrant Massey. The screening underscores the importance of revisiting historical events to ensure that the truth is preserved.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/pm-modi-attends-the-sabarmati-report-screening-at-parliaments-auditorium/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: Global south not to blame for environmental damage: Piyush Goyal
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 12:11:46 +0000
Content: Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, speaking at the inaugural session of the CII Partnership Summit 2024, on Monday, said that the Global South is not responsible for the environmental damage caused by the exploitation of low-cost energy by developed nations. 
 
Ministers and officials from countries such as Italy, Israel, Bhutan, Bahrain, Algeria, Nepal, Senegal, South Africa, Myanmar, Qatar, and Cambodia participated in the event.  
 
Goyal highlighted that each of the partner countries has shared responsibilities towards the environment, but countries present at the summit are not responsible for the damage to the environment.
 
Therefore, the responsibilities towards shared supply chains and sustainability will have to be met through common but differentiated responsibility, he said. While all have to work together, everybody needs to be given responsibility based on their contribution to the environmental problem, he added.
 
India, he said, extends its hand of friendship to Global South nations, promoting cooperation in areas like stability, satellite technology, and sustainability. Goyal also stressed the importance of financial liquidity and introspection on consumption patterns, advocating for a circular economy to curb waste and reduce the carbon footprint.  
 
“Consumption waste is not going to make the world a better place to live in and the world will have to reflect on lifestyles and a circular economy. While pursuing the goal of a good lifestyle we have to be conscious of the waste and of the carbon footprint that we leave,” Goyal said.
 
Reflecting on the summit, Goyal said that synergy among the partner countries can send a message of oneness to the world. He said that India has always stood for peace and dialogue. 
 
Diplomacy, as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will have to be encouraged to tackle the geopolitical challenges the world is facing today and partner countries must align with each other’s interests to achieve the goal of common peace and prosperity, Goyal added.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/global-south-not-to-blame-for-environmental-damage-piyush-goyal/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: 4 oral GLP-1R obesity drugs in race for approval, Novo Nordisk leads: report
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 11:00:44 +0000
Content: Four oral glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) drugs, currently under Phase III trials, are in the race for approval, according to a report.
This follows the immense popularity of injectable GLP-1R drugs, such as Novo Nordisk’s Wegovy and Saxenda, Eli Lilly’s Zepbound, and Shanghai Benemae Pharmaceutical’s Yishengtai, all of which have been approved for obesity.
The report by GlobalData, a data and analytics company, showed that 63 drugs are in active development, with four Phase III products racing to earn the inaugural approval in this untapped market.
Jasper Morley, Pharma Analyst at GlobalData, said that Novo Nordisk is leading the pack with four separate products, two apiece in Phase III and Phase II.
“Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly are looking to expand their GLP-1R portfolios and cement their positions as frontrunners within the oral GLP-1R for obesity category,” Morley said.
Novo Nordisk’s Phase III product Rybelsus has already been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for cardiovascular risk factors and Type 2 diabetes. The Danish company now aims to expand its portfolio to include obesity.
In addition, the company’s Phase III candidate, NN-9932, is expected to be launched by the end of 2025.
“NN-9932 has the highest probability of success among all drugs in this category, with a 35 per cent likelihood of approval (LoA),” Morley said.
Further, Morley mentioned that Eli Lilly’s Phase III candidate, orforglipron calcium, aims to be the first oral GLP-1R approved for obesity by 2026. It will also be the first GLP-1R to gain approval as a small molecule.
China-based Jiangsu Hengrui’s HRS-9531 is the final Phase III contender. This is the only product in the group not being developed by a major pharmaceutical company, highlighting the growing interest from global players in entering the competitive oral GLP-1R market.
Obesity is defined as excessive fat accumulation resulting from an imbalance between energy intake (diet) and expenditure (physical activity). It has reached epidemic proportions globally—an alarming trend that presents a lucrative opportunity for drugmakers.
Morley noted that drug sales for GLP-1Rs in obesity are expected “to surpass $126 billion by 2030.”
“Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly have already reaped substantial rewards in the injectable segment. However, the emergence of oral therapies is reshaping the landscape,” Morley said.
While injectables have gained immense popularity, they are associated with certain drawbacks, such as the requirement to visit a professional clinic for administration. The oral alternatives will offer greater convenience, lower development costs, and simpler marketing, the report said.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/4-oral-glp-1r-obesity-drugs-in-race-for-approval-novo-nordisk-leads-report/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: Indian Navy keeps close watch on Chinese naval presence in Indian ocean, concern over South China Sea: Admiral Tripathi
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 10:55:11 +0000
Content: Indian Navy Chief Admiral Dinesh K. Tripathi said on Monday that the Indian Navy is actively monitoring the presence of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLA Navy) in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR).
Addressing the media at a press conference, Admiral Tripathi emphasized the strategic importance of tracking extra-regional forces, including the PLA Navy, which operates warships and research vessels in the region. “We are keeping a close watch on the extra-regional forces operating in the Indian seas, including the PLA Navy, their warships, and research vessels. We are fully aware of their activities and locations,” he said.
The Admiral highlighted that while the Chinese Navy is becoming more prominent in the Pacific Ocean, India remains vigilant to ensure its interests in the Indian Ocean are protected. “China has expressed ambitions to become a global power, as detailed in works like The Hundred-Year Marathon. We are seeing this ambition manifesting itself more in the Pacific, but we are monitoring the situation closely to safeguard our strategic interests in the Indian Ocean,” Admiral Tripathi said.
In addition to monitoring the Chinese threat, the Navy Chief also addressed India’s strategic capabilities. He confirmed the successful test of a nuclear-capable missile launched from India’s nuclear-powered submarine, INS Arighaat. “India successfully conducted a test of the missile. The agencies involved are currently analyzing the missile’s trajectory, and the results will be available soon,” he said.
The Admiral also provided an update on India’s nuclear submarine program. He reassured that the nation’s nuclear-powered submarines, including INS Arihant, are progressing as planned. “INS Arihant has completed multiple deterrence patrols, and the second submarine recently conducted a missile test. These submarines will continue their operational duties as required,” Tripathi added.
India’s naval capabilities are undergoing significant expansion, with 62 warships and one submarine currently under construction. Additionally, the Indian Navy is seeking approval for 31 more advanced warships and submarines, including six under the Project 75 India initiative. “This also includes the procurement of 60 utility helicopters for the Navy,” Tripathi said.
The commissioning of the second SSBN (Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine) INS Arighaat by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in August was also confirmed by Admiral Tripathi. “This addition significantly strengthens our nuclear triad and enhances India’s strategic capabilities,” he said.
Commenting on technological advancements, Admiral Tripathi stressed India’s focus on incorporating cutting-edge technologies into naval operations. “As Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pointed out, warfare is evolving, and we are prioritizing the integration of artificial intelligence, robotics, and other niche technologies to stay ahead of emerging threats,” he said.
On the issue of Pakistan’s growing naval capabilities, Admiral Tripathi expressed awareness of the neighbor’s ambitions to develop a 50-ship navy. “We are aware of Pakistan’s efforts to expand its naval fleet. However, they have chosen to prioritize weapons development over the welfare of their people,” he added.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indian-navy-keeps-close-watch-on-chinese-naval-presence-in-indian-ocean-concern-over-south-china-sea-admiral-tripathi/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: Kannada actress Shobhita Shivanna found dead at Hyderabad residence
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 10:22:02 +0000
Content: Kannada television actress Shobhita Shivanna was found dead at her residence in Hyderabad on Sunday.
 
According to police, the 29-year-old was discovered hanging from the ceiling of her apartment in Sriram Nagar Colony, Gachibowli. The circumstances surrounding her death remain unclear. Her neighbors found her body and alerted the police.
 
Authorities from the Gachibowli police station have launched an investigation, and the body has been sent to Osmania General Hospital for an autopsy.
 
Shobhita was known for her roles in popular TV serials such as Brahmagantu and Ninidale and had also appeared in a few films. 
 
Originally from Sakleshpur in Karnataka’s Hassan district, she got married last year and had stepped away from the entertainment industry. Shobhita was living in Hyderabad with her husband, Sudheer.
 
(With IANS input)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/kannada-actress-shobhita-shivanna-found-dead-at-hyderabad-residence/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: Motor racing-Doohan to replace Ocon for Abu Dhabi Grand Prix
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 10:19:32 +0000
Content: Australian Jack Doohan, son of motorcycle great Mick, will make his Formula One debut for Alpine in Sunday’s season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix after departing Esteban Ocon was released early, the Renault-owned team said on Monday.
Ocon has signed for Haas and the switch will allow him to take part in the post-season test at Yas Marina next week, while also preparing Doohan for next season when he graduates from reserve to full race driver.
Doohan, 21, joins French driver Pierre Gasly at a team currently fighting Haas in a close battle for sixth place in the championship.
Alpine moved five points clear of their U.S.-owned rivals on Sunday after Gasly finished fifth at the Qatar Grand Prix.
Ocon, a race winner for the team in Hungary in 2021, was caught up in a collision at the start and retired.
Doohan will debut with his reserve driver number 61 and will also take part in the end-of-season test.
The switch had been flagged up already after the race at Lusail, with team boss Oliver Oakes telling reporters it would suit everybody concerned.
“I guess you could say it’s good to get Jack in early. I think you could say from Esteban’s side it’s good to move on early,” he said.
Oakes said Doohan would be able to “get those butterflies gone now rather than next year in Australia”, with Melbourne the opening race of 2025 on March 16.
(REUTERS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/motor-racing-doohan-to-replace-ocon-for-abu-dhabi-grand-prix/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: AIF investments in India at Rs 4.49 lakh crore in H1 FY25, real estate dominates: report
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 10:06:52 +0000
Content: India attracted approximately Rs 4.5 lakh crore in Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) during the first half (H1) of the 2024-25 financial year, driven by strong economic growth among large economies.
According to the latest SEBI data compiled by ANAROCK Research, of the total Rs 4,49,384 crore in AIF investments made across various sectors till H1 FY2025, real estate held the largest share at 17%, totaling nearly Rs 75,468 crore.
Other sectors benefiting from AIF investments include IT/ITeS (Rs 27,815 crore), financial services (Rs 25,782 crore), NBFCs (Rs 21,503 crore), banks (Rs 18,242 crore), pharma (Rs 17,272 crore), FMCG (Rs 11,680 crore), retail (Rs 11,389 crore), renewable energy (Rs 10,672 crore), and others (Rs 2,29,571 crore).
Alternative investment funds in India have witnessed a significant increase in the number of available funds over the past decade. AIFs’ overall commitment rose by more than 340% in the last six years — from Rs 2,82,148 crore in FY 2019 to Rs 12,43,083 crore in H1 FY2025, reflecting a growing appetite for alternative investment strategies.
From FY2013 to FY2024, the commitment raised in the AIF sector maintained an impressive 83.4% compound annual growth rate (CAGR), highlighting its increasing significance in the broader investment landscape.
Anuj Puri, Chairman of ANAROCK Group, said, “Total investments in the real estate sector via AIFs have risen from Rs 68,540 crore by the end of FY 2024 to Rs 75,468 crore in H1 FY2025, marking a notable 10% growth in just half the financial year.”
Puri further added, “A closer look at the data reveals that the surge in AIF activity is largely driven by Category II AIFs, which include a mix of Real Estate Funds, Private Equity, Debt Funds, and Fund of Funds (FoF).”
While domestic investors have traditionally been the main source of AIF funding, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) are now playing an increasingly significant role, particularly in the case of Category II AIFs. In this category, FPIs now have nearly equal participation alongside domestic investors.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/aif-investments-in-india-at-rs-4-49-lakh-crore-in-h1-fy25-real-estate-dominates-report/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-02 13:42:45

Title: Asia’s first water transport service ‘Uber Shikara’ launched on Dal Lake
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 17:52:41 +0000
Content: Uber has launched Asia’s first water transport service, “Uber Shikara,” in the picturesque Dal Lake of Jammu and Kashmir, combining technology with tradition to revolutionize tourist experiences.
With this innovative initiative, tourists can now enjoy hassle-free, pre-booked shikara rides through Uber’s ride-hailing app, marking a significant milestone in the company’s offerings. The service was inaugurated by Uber India and South Asia President Prabhjeet Singh, who booked the inaugural ride via the app.
“Uber Shikara is our humble attempt to blend technology and tradition, enhancing accessibility and uplifting tourism in the breathtaking landscape of Kashmir,” Singh said at the launch.
The service currently partners with seven local shikara operators, with plans to expand the fleet based on user demand. These shikaras are stationed at Nehru Park, a scenic island in the heart of Dal Lake. Uber ensures fair pricing by adhering to government-regulated rates, and notably, the company will not charge any fees from its shikara partners, allowing operators to retain the full fare.
Ruchika Tomar, Uber’s Director of Communications, emphasized the cultural and experiential significance of the service: “Anyone visiting Srinagar must experience a shikara ride. Our service brings together the magic of technology and Kashmir’s traditional charm, providing a seamless and timeless experience for travellers.”
Each Uber Shikara can accommodate up to four passengers and offers one-hour rides daily between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Rides can be scheduled from 12 hours up to 15 days in advance.
While the service is a first for Asia, it follows similar water transport initiatives by Uber in select European locations like Venice, Italy. Uber Shikara reflects the company’s commitment to integrating local culture into its offerings.
Local shikara operators have welcomed the move, expressing optimism that this partnership will boost tourism and provide a steady income. The fleet expansion is expected to be rolled out in phases, depending on user demand and operational feedback.
Uber previously established its presence in Srinagar with cab services, and with the addition of Uber Shikara, it aims to further enrich the tourist experience and strengthen its connection to Kashmir’s vibrant heritage.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/asias-first-water-transport-service-uber-shikara-launched-on-dal-lake/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: Cyclone Fengal: IMD issues heavy rain alert for South India
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 17:44:21 +0000
Content: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a heavy rain alert for several regions of South India, including North Interior Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Karnataka, as the remnants of Cyclone Fengal continue to impact the region. The low-pressure area, a remnant of Cyclone Fengal, persists over North Interior Tamil Nadu and is expected to bring heavy rainfall on December 3.
The IMD reported that the low-pressure system is likely to move into the southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea off the north Kerala-Karnataka coasts by December 3. While heavy to very heavy rainfall is forecast for several areas on December 2, the rainfall intensity is expected to reduce by December 3, with isolated heavy rainfall continuing.
In Kerala, heavy to very heavy rainfall, with extremely heavy falls in isolated locations, is expected on December 2, with heavy rain continuing on December 3. Similarly, South Interior Karnataka is likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places on December 2, followed by isolated heavy rainfall on December 3. Coastal Karnataka is also on alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall on December 2, with a decrease to isolated heavy rainfall the following day.
The remnants of Cyclone Fengal, which made landfall recently, have already caused severe flooding in coastal areas of North Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. In particular, the Sankaraparani River in Puducherry overflowed, inundating over 200 residences in NR Nagar. Residents remain stranded, with the Indian Army and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) actively engaged in rescue operations.
As of 11:30 PM on December 1, the depression, a remnant of Cyclone Fengal, was centered over north coastal Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, moving west-northwestward at a speed of 7 km/h. The IMD indicated that the depression was located approximately 40 km northwest of Villupuram, 70 km west-northwest of Puducherry, 80 km northwest of Cuddalore, and 140 km southwest of Chennai.
The IMD further said that the system is expected to weaken gradually into a well-marked low-pressure area over north interior Tamil Nadu, with the remnants moving towards the Arabian Sea by December 3. The situation is being closely monitored by the Doppler Weather Radar at Karaikal.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/cyclone-fengal-imd-issues-heavy-rain-alert-for-south-india/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: Govt updates forest cover data and implements forest conservation amendments
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 17:07:12 +0000
Content: The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has announced a significant update in its assessment of the country’s forest cover. The Forest Survey of India (FSI) will now use the updated base year of 2022-23 for compiling the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and forest cover data, replacing the previous base year of 2011-12.
The assessment of forest cover, which is conducted biennially, shows that India’s total forest cover now stands at 7,13,789 square kilometers, accounting for 21.71% of the nation’s geographical area.
The latest data, provided in the India State of Forest Report (ISFR) 2021, indicates that forest and tree cover has increased by 7,449 square kilometers from the previous assessment in 2017. Notably, there has been no loss in forest cover or tree cover, allaying concerns about increased carbon emissions due to deforestation.
The government clarified that discrepancies between the ISFR 2021 and Global Forest Watch data may arise due to differences in the definitions of forest cover and tree cover used in the two reports. The Ministry assured that there has been no significant environmental degradation in terms of forest cover loss.
In response to evolving environmental concerns, the government also announced amendments to the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. These amendments, which came into effect on December 1, 2023, aim to strengthen the conservation, management, and restoration of forests.
The revised provisions emphasize ecologically sustainable development, ecological security, and the preservation of traditional values tied to forests. The amendments also seek to advance India’s goals of carbon neutrality while supporting economic needs.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/govt-updates-forest-cover-data-and-implements-forest-conservation-amendments/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: BJP appoints Vijay Rupani, Nirmala Sitharaman as central observers for Maharashtra
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 16:44:42 +0000
Content: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has appointed former Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as the party’s Central Observers for Maharashtra.
Despite the Mahayuti alliance’s landslide victory in the Maharashtra Assembly elections, over a week has passed without the announcement of the next Chief Minister.
On Sunday, Caretaker Chief Minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde stated that the decision on the Chief Minister’s post rests with the BJP, adding that he would fully support the chosen candidate.
Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP from Kalyan, Shrikant Shinde, denied rumors that he would be appointed as the Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra. On Monday, he took to social media to dismiss the claims, emphasizing that he has no desire for any ministerial position in the state.
“After the election results, the formation of the government has been slightly delayed, and many rumors have surfaced, including one that I am set to become the deputy chief minister. I want to clarify that this is completely baseless and false. There is no truth to it. I was offered a chance to become a minister in the Union Cabinet after the Lok Sabha elections, but I chose to work for my party’s organization, and that remains my focus. I do not seek any position of power,” Shrikant Shinde posted on X.
The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly election results, declared on November 23, saw the Mahayuti alliance securing 230 of the 288 seats. However, the alliance has not yet finalized its Chief Ministerial candidate.
In the election, the BJP won 132 seats, while its allies — Shiv Sena, led by Eknath Shinde, secured 57 seats, and the NCP, led by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, won 41 seats.
In contrast, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) suffered a significant setback, with the Shiv Sena (UBT), led by Uddhav Thackeray, winning only 20 seats, Congress securing 16, and the NCP(SP), led by Sharad Pawar, managing just 10 seats.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/bjp-appoints-vijay-rupani-nirmala-sitharaman-as-central-observers-for-maharashtra/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: Government to update GDP base year to 2022-23
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 16:38:16 +0000
Content: The Government of India has announced its decision to revise the base year for the calculation of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from 2011-12 to 2022-23, marking a significant update to the country’s national accounting framework.
An Advisory Committee on National Accounts Statistics (ACNAS) has been constituted to facilitate the transition. The committee includes representatives from central and state governments, the Reserve Bank of India, academia, and research institutions.
Its primary role will be to identify new data sources and provide recommendations on the methodology for compiling national accounts in the revised series.
As part of efforts to strengthen the statistical system, the government has undertaken several initiatives. These include the establishment of ACNAS, the standardization of data structures to ensure harmonized and high-quality reporting across the National Statistical System, and the increased utilization of administrative data.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/government-to-update-gdp-base-year-to-2022-23/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: Bangladesh expresses concerns over security of diplomatic missions in India
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 15:50:54 +0000
Content: The government of Bangladesh has strongly condemned the “violent demonstration and attack” by a large group of protesters from the Hindu Sangharsh Samity of Agartala on Monday at the premises of the Assistant High Commission of Bangladesh in Agartala. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh issued a statement on Monday evening expressing deep concern over the incident.
The statement said that all members of the Assistant High Commission were left with a profound sense of insecurity following the attack.
“This particular act in Agartala is a violation of the inviolability of diplomatic missions, as mandated by the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, 1961,” the statement said.
The Bangladeshi government emphasized that it is the responsibility of the host government to ensure the protection of diplomatic missions from any form of intrusion or damage.
“The government of Bangladesh calls upon the government of India to take immediate action to address this incident, conduct a thorough investigation, and prevent any further acts of violence against the diplomatic missions of Bangladesh in India,” the statement urged.
The ministry also highlighted the importance of safeguarding the safety and security of diplomats, non-diplomatic staff members, and their families.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/bangladesh-expresses-concerns-over-security-of-diplomatic-missions-in-india/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: India’s manufacturing PMI dips to 56.5 in November but remains in expansion zone
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 15:37:14 +0000
Content: India’s manufacturing sector showcased resilience in November despite mounting cost pressures and fierce competition. The seasonally adjusted HSBC India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) stood at 56.5, slipping from October’s 57.5 and matching an 11-month low. However, the PMI remained well above the 50-mark threshold, signaling continued expansion in the sector.
A robust demand environment drove growth in sales and output, but escalating costs and competitive pressures tempered the pace of expansion. Input cost inflation surged to its highest level since July, with rising prices for chemicals, cotton, leather, and rubber forcing manufacturers to pass on the burden to consumers. Output charges saw their steepest increase since October 2013.
Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India Economist at HSBC, noted that while the manufacturing PMI indicated strong growth, rising input costs and inflationary pressures were slowing output expansion. “India recorded a 56.5 manufacturing PMI in November, down slightly from October but still firmly in expansionary territory. Strong international demand, evidenced by a four-month high in new export orders, continues to fuel the sector’s growth,” she said.
International demand saw a notable uptick, with export orders from markets such as Italy, the UK, Bangladesh, China, and the US reaching a four-month high. However, domestic sales faced challenges due to inflationary pressures, highlighting a mixed performance across the sector.
The manufacturing industry continued its hiring streak for the ninth consecutive month, with both permanent and temporary staff being employed to meet production needs. While job creation softened compared to October, it remained solid, reflecting efforts to bolster workforce capacity.
Additionally, manufacturers maintained strong input purchasing to build inventories and meet future demand. Although the pace of buying slowed to a near one-year low, improved supplier performance and shorter lead times provided some relief to the sector.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indias-manufacturing-pmi-dips-to-56-5-in-november-but-remains-in-expansion-zone/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: World should learn from PM Narendra Modi’s initiative ‘PRAGATI’ to transform governance: University of Oxford
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 14:18:55 +0000
Content: The University of Oxford has lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s PRAGATI initiative as a transformative model for governance, urging the global community to learn from India’s innovative approach. In a study titled “From Gridlock to Growth: How Leadership Enables India’s PRAGATI Ecosystem to Power Progress,” the university highlighted the platform’s role in revolutionizing project monitoring and resolution in India.
Launched in 2015, PRAGATI—an acronym for Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation—has redefined the management of large-scale infrastructure projects and social programs across the nation. The platform combines digital tools, real-time data, drone feeds, and video conferencing to expedite project timelines while ensuring development reaches even the remotest regions.
The report emphasizes PRAGATI’s success in breaking bureaucratic inertia, fostering a “Team India” mindset, and instilling accountability and efficiency across central and state governments. By bringing diverse stakeholders together on a single platform, the initiative has tackled complex challenges such as land acquisition and inter-ministerial coordination, significantly advancing infrastructure development.
Economically, the impact of PRAGATI is profound. Studies by the Reserve Bank of India and the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy show that for every rupee spent on infrastructure, India gains 2.5 to 3.5 rupees in GDP. This multiplier effect underscores PRAGATI’s role in driving economic growth and bolstering India’s resilience during global economic uncertainties.
Beyond economic growth, PRAGATI has enhanced social progress and environmental sustainability. Fast-tracked projects providing essential services—such as roads, railways, water, and electricity—have improved the quality of life for millions. The platform’s incorporation of green technologies and streamlined environmental clearances ensures that India’s development remains sustainable and inclusive.
The Oxford report further notes that PRAGATI’s lessons are particularly relevant for nations grappling with the Middle-Income Trap. It demonstrates how governance innovation, combined with strategic infrastructure investments, can create conditions for sustained growth and progress.
“By embracing digital tools and fostering collaboration across all levels of government, India has charted a path that other emerging economies can emulate,” the report stated, commending PRAGATI as a beacon of modern governance.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/world-should-learn-from-pm-narendra-modis-initiative-pragati-to-transform-governance-university-of-oxford/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: Govt withdraws windfall tax on ATF, crude, petrol, and diesel, easing burden on oil companies
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 13:26:00 +0000
Content: The government on Monday announced the withdrawal of the windfall tax on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF), crude oil, petrol, and diesel through a notification introduced in the Lok Sabha.
The decision comes as a major relief for oil companies like Reliance Industries and ONGC, which had been bearing the burden of the tax since its imposition in July 2022. The windfall tax was initially introduced to capture a portion of the excess revenue earned by oil companies due to soaring global crude prices and higher refining margins.
The removal of the tax is expected to boost profits for these companies, particularly in refining operations.
According to the Ministry of Finance notification, the Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED)—commonly referred to as the windfall tax—on the production of petroleum crude and the export of ATF, petrol, and high-speed diesel will no longer apply.
The windfall tax, which was reviewed every 15 days based on fluctuations in global crude oil prices, had been adjusted fortnightly by the Department of Revenue to align with international oil market trends.
However, with crude oil prices stabilizing and declining in recent months, the revenue generated from the tax had significantly diminished. This prompted the government to scrap the levy, recognizing that its continuation was no longer economically viable.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/govt-withdraws-windfall-tax-on-atf-crude-petrol-and-diesel-easing-burden-on-oil-companies/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: India’s organic food products export reaches $448 Mn, set to surpass last year’s figures
Publication Date: Mon, 02 Dec 2024 12:59:05 +0000
Content: India’s organic food products export reached $447.73 million in the first eight months of this fiscal (FY25) and is on track to surpass last year’s total export of $494.80 million, the Parliament was informed on Monday.
In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Union Minister of Food Processing Industries, Navneet Singh Bittu, stated that 263,050 metric tonnes (MT) of organic food products have been exported as of November 25 this year.
While the Ministry of Food Processing Industries has not allocated specific funds to incentivize industries producing organic products, the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, provides financial assistance to its member exporters, including those exporting organic food products.
APEDA is implementing the National Programme for Organic Production (NPOP), which involves the accreditation of certification bodies, development of standards for organic production, and promotion of organic farming and marketing. Under this programme, India has 1,016 organic-certified processing units.
In September, APEDA partnered with global retail chain LuLu Group International (LLC) to showcase Indian organic products in its stores across the United Arab Emirates (UAE). This partnership aims to connect Indian organic growers, including Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), Farmer Producer Companies (FPCs), and cooperatives, with global markets, ensuring wider reach for certified Indian organic products.
The authority is also committed to promoting Indian agro and processed food exports by organizing B2B exhibitions in various countries, exploring new potential markets, and collaborating with Indian embassies to promote natural, organic, and Geographical Indication (GI)-tagged agro-products.
Minister Bittu emphasized the significant global demand for organic products and India’s role as a key supplier, stating that these efforts are expected to strengthen the country’s agricultural export base further.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indias-organic-food-products-export-reaches-448-mn-set-to-surpass-last-years-figures/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 02:46:09

Title: Women’s sport rides popularity wave to growth in 2025
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 07:33:27 +0000
Content: Major gains in television viewing and attendance at women’s sports in 2024 will give way to expansion in 2025 as start-ups and established leagues alike look to take advantage of the surging interest, industry leaders and experts say.
North America’s top-flight National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) and Women’s National Basketball Association (WNBA) both saw record viewing figures, while fans in the United Kingdom devoted more time than ever to watching the Women’s Super League (WSL) and television ratings soared for Women’s Premier League cricket in its second season.
Deep-pocketed investors took notice, and growth will be the theme for 2025 as the WNBA welcomes its first new franchise since 2008 when the Golden State Valkyries begin play next year.
The WNBA, which is also preparing for two more teams in 2026 in Portland and Toronto, had its most-watched regular season with 1.2 million average viewers on ESPN, according to the broadcaster, while an average of 1.6 million watched the Finals, the biggest audience in 25 years.
The league had enjoyed steady growth in recent years but the surge was helped along by a compelling rookie class led by Caitlin Clark, whose record-smashing collegiate career was a watershed moment for women’s sport in the United States.
Clark will hope her extraordinary star power will help in her joint bid to bring an NWSL team to Cincinnati, as the women’s soccer league considers three contenders, including Denver and Cleveland, for an fresh expansion franchise.
The league saw average viewership of 967,900 for this year’s championship, up 18% from 2023, the NWSL said, and is preparing to expand to 15 members when a Boston team joins in 2026.
The value of NWSL and WNBA teams is expected to grow by at least $1.6 billion over the next three years, according to research released late last month by The Collective, sports and entertainment agency Wasserman’s women’s division.
“The women’s sports industry is an incredibly valuable and rapidly growing sector,” The Collective Managing Director Thayer Lavielle said in a statement.
“WNBA and NWSL teams are leading the charge but this growth is not limited to these leagues — it’s about the growth of the entire women’s sports ecosystem.”
A PwC survey this year of more than 400 industry leaders showed 85% expected double-digit growth for women’s sports revenues in the next three to five years, with soccer, basketball and rugby in particular getting a boost from major events.
The climate has been appealing for new outfits too, as Premier Lacrosse League last month announced a women’s league that will debut next year, and the six-team Women’s Professional Baseball League (WPBL) plans to kick off in 2026.
The WPBL was approached by dozens of potential owners in the week after they announced their launch in October, according to Keith Stein, co-founder of the league with pioneer Justine Siegal, the first woman to coach a professional men’s baseball team.
“Over 40% of Major League Baseball fans are women and women’s professional sports — even women’s collegiate sports — have never been more recognized by the public than today,” Siegal told Reuters.
“It’s a perfect time to take a game that women have been loving for centuries and give them a chance not just to play but also be in leadership positions.”
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/womens-sport-rides-popularity-wave-to-growth-in-2025/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: Trump to attend Notre-Dame reopening in first foreign trip since election
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 07:08:09 +0000
Content: U.S. President-elect Donald Trump said on Monday he will travel to Paris to attend this weekend’s reopening of the Notre-Dame Cathedral, which was gutted by fire over five years ago, in his first foreign trip since winning the election.
Notre-Dame, a Gothic masterpiece, is one of the French capital’s most beloved and visited monuments. It will reopen its doors later this week to tourists and the Catholic faithful.
Major reconstruction works have restored the 12th-century cathedral, its spire, rib vaulting, flying buttresses, stained-glass windows and carved stone gargoyles to their past glory, with the white stone and gold decorations shining brighter than ever.
Trump, who won the Nov. 5 election and is due to take office on Jan. 20, praised the government of French President Emmanuel Macron in a post on his social-media platform Truth Social on Monday.
“President Emmanuel Macron has done a wonderful job ensuring that Notre Dame has been restored to its full level of glory, and even more so. It will be a very special day for all!” he wrote.
The French government invited Trump to attend Saturday’s reopening ceremony and his team has been in discussions with Macron’s office about the trip.
His planned visit comes amid political turmoil in France where the government is all but certain to collapse later this week after far-right and left-wing parties submitted no-confidence motions on Monday against Prime Minister Michel Barnier.
While Trump has not gone overseas since winning re-election, he left Florida to visit New York for a sporting event and travelled to Texas with billionaire Elon Musk to watch Musk’s SpaceX launch its giant Starship rocket.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/trump-to-attend-notre-dame-reopening-in-first-foreign-trip-since-election/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: Ukraine pushes for NATO invite 30 years after failed nuclear deal
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 07:06:30 +0000
Content: Ukraine on Tuesday blasted an agreement struck 30 years ago under which it relinquished nuclear weapons in exchange for security assurances that never materialised, as it makes a concerted push for an invitation to join the NATO alliance.
Kyiv is desperately calling for robust security guarantees to protect it from renewed Russian aggression as U.S. President-elect Donald Trump’s return to the White House raises fears of a rapidly-struck settlement to the war that would leave it exposed.
Ukraine’s foreign ministry pointed to the 1994 Budapest Memorandum which saw Kyiv give up the world’s third largest nuclear arsenal in return for security assurances, including from Russia, after the 1991 Soviet breakup.
“Today, the Budapest Memorandum is a monument to short-sightedness in strategic security decision-making,” the ministry wrote in a statement, marking this week’s anniversary of the Dec. 5, 1994, agreement.
It said the agreement “should serve as a reminder to the current leaders of the Euro-Atlantic community that building a European security architecture at the expense of Ukraine’s interests, rather than taking them into consideration is destined to failure”.
Ukraine has denounced the memorandum since 2014, long before the 2022 invasion, when Russian troops seized and annexed Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula before backing paramilitary proxies in the east.
The fighting in Ukraine’s east, which killed thousands, was brought to an uneasy ceasefire followed by dozens of rounds of talks under what was known as the Minsk agreements.
Even after almost three years of all-out war, Kyiv has balked at the prospect of a return to similar negotiations that could see a temporary ceasefire but leave open the prospect of a new Russian invasion.
“Enough of the Budapest Memorandum. Enough of the Minsk Agreements. Twice is enough, we cannot fall into the same trap a third time. We simply have no right to do so,” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said.
Kyiv wants NATO members to issue an invitation at a meeting of the alliance’s foreign ministers that starts on Tuesday, as the invasion grinds toward its three-year mark and Russia makes battlefield gains.
The foreign ministry statement called on the United States and Britain, also signatories to the 1994 memorandum, as well as France and China, which it said also acceded to it, to support the provision of security guarantees to Ukraine.
“We are convinced that the only real guarantee of security for Ukraine, as well as a deterrent to further Russian aggression against Ukraine and other states, is Ukraine’s full membership in NATO,” it said.
Russia sees the idea of Ukraine’s integration into NATO as anathema and says it is an unacceptable security threat.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/ukraine-pushes-for-nato-invite-30-years-after-failed-nuclear-deal/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: Indian team showed how tenacious and skilful they are: Australia’s Deputy High Commissioner in India
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 07:01:32 +0000
Content: Australia’s Deputy High Commissioner to India, Nicholas McCaffrey, said on Monday that the Border-Gavaskar Trophy (BGT) series had gotten off to a ‘dream start,’ lauding the Indian team for their historic victory in Perth.
McCaffrey said that the Australian team must respond strongly in the second Test, which is scheduled to begin on December 6.
“Once again, the Indian men’s cricket team just showed how tenacious and skilful they are. Now, the Australian team must respond. We are optimistic that they will bounce back,” McCaffrey told ANI.
After being outplayed in the first two sessions of the opening day, India staged a remarkable comeback in Perth. Records tumbled as Jasprit Bumrah led the Indian team in the absence of skipper Rohit Sharma. India dominated the match, defeating Australia by 295 runs at Optus Stadium in Perth.
India played a warm-up match against the Prime Minister’s XI ahead of the second Test. The game was reduced to 50 overs per side due to rain on the first day. The Australian team showed resilience, with youngster Sam Konstas leading the charge with a superb 107 off 97 balls. His masterclass with the bat helped the Prime Minister’s XI post a competitive total of 240.
In reply, Shubman Gill, who returned to the side after missing the first Test due to injury, spearheaded India’s batting effort. He scored a solid fifty, with other key players contributing to secure a six-wicket victory for India.
Australia Squad (for 2nd Test): Pat Cummins (C), Scott Boland, Alex Carey (WK), Josh Hazlewood, Travis Head, Josh Inglis, Usman Khawaja, Marnus Labuschagne, Nathan Lyon, Mitch Marsh, Nathan McSweeney, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc, Beau Webster.
India Squad” Rohit Sharma (C), Jasprit Bumrah (VC), Yashasvi Jaiswal, KL Rahul, Abhimanyu Easwaran, Devdutt Padikkal, Shubman Gill, Virat Kohli, Rishabh Pant, Sarfaraz Khan, Dhruv Jurel, Ravichandran Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Mohammed Siraj, Akash Deep, Prasidh Krishna, Harshit Rana, Nitish Kumar Reddy, Washington Sundar. Reserves: Mukesh Kumar, Navdeep Saini, Khaleel Ahmed, Yash Dayal.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indian-team-showed-how-tenacious-and-skilful-they-are-australias-deputy-high-commissioner-in-india/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: PM Modi assures support to Tamil Nadu for cyclone relief
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 05:59:56 +0000
Content: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday assured Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin of the central government’s full support for the flood-hit districts devastated by Cyclone Fengal, which has caused extensive damage and property loss across the state.
In a post on X, CM Stalin said that he had spoken with PM Modi to request immediate relief assistance and urged the Prime Minister to dispatch a central team to assess the cyclone’s impact.
On Monday, CM Stalin requested Rs 2,000 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) to aid in restoration and rehabilitation efforts.
“Cyclone Fengal has wreaked unprecedented havoc across 14 districts of Tamil Nadu, affecting 1.5 crore people, inundating 2.11 lakh hectares of farmland, and damaging critical infrastructure. Given the magnitude of destruction, I urge Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release Rs2000 crore from the NDRF immediately to aid emergency restoration and rehabilitation efforts,” Stalin said in a post on X.
The incessant rains have forced the closure of schools in four districts. Seven people, including five children, died in a landslide caused by heavy rainfall in Thiruvannamalai district. CM Stalin announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the victims.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/pm-modi-assures-support-to-tamil-nadu-amid-flood-crisis/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: Yogi govt to set up luxury tent city for Mahakumbh 2025 in UP
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 05:50:40 +0000
Content: After declaring the Maha Kumbh area in Prayagraj as a new district, the Uttar Pradesh government is setting up a luxury tent city with more than 2,000 swiss cottage-style tents in Sector 20 (Arail) of the Mahakumbh Mela area to accommodate crores of devotees expected for the Mahakumbh 2025.
As per an official statement, the project is being carried out by the Uttar Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation Limited (UPSTDC), in collaboration with six key partners: Aagaman, Kumbh Camp India, Rishikul Kumbh Cottage, Kumbh Village, Kumbh Canvas, and Era.
This ambitious project aims to cater to the expected 45 crore visitors from 75 countries.
The tents will be constructed to world-class standards, offering five-star hotel-like facilities.
The tent city will offer accommodations in four categories: Villa, Maharaja, Swiss Cottage, and Dormitory, with prices ranging from Rs 1,500 to Rs 35,000 per day.
Additional charges of Rs 4,000 to Rs 8,000 will apply for extra guests (excluding dormitories).
With an estimated 45 crore pilgrims expected to visit, these tents will be operational from January 1 to March 5, offering world-class accommodation facilities.
Visitors can book accommodation via the UPSTDC website or the Mahakumbh app, the statement said.
To ensure the comfort of guests, the tent city will feature Villa Tents spanning 900 square feet, Super Deluxe Tents ranging from 480 to 580 square feet, and Deluxe Blocks covering 250 to 400 square feet.
The tents will be equipped with modern amenities such as air conditioning, double beds, mattresses, sofa sets, customised interiors, writing desks, electric geysers, fire extinguishers, quilts, blankets, mosquito nets, WiFi, dining areas, common sitting spaces, all with scenic views of the riverbank, it added.
Additionally, the tent package will include information on yoga, cultural events, and significant religious and historical sites in Prayagraj and surrounding areas, it said.
The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday declared the Maha Kumbh area in Prayagraj as a new district.
The upcoming Maha Kumbh held once every 12 years, is scheduled to begin on January 13 and conclude on February 26, 2025, in Prayagraj.
(IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/yogi-govt-to-set-up-luxury-tent-city-for-mahakumbh-2025-in-up/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: International Day of Persons with Disabilities: A call for a more inclusive and sustainable future
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 05:42:56 +0000
Content: The International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPD), observed annually on December 3, serves as a global reminder of the importance of fostering inclusivity and recognizing the invaluable contributions of persons with disabilities (PwDs). The theme for this year, “Amplifying the leadership of persons with disabilities for an inclusive and sustainable future,” calls on the world to take further steps towards ensuring that PwDs are given equal opportunities to lead and contribute to societal progress.
A Shift Towards Inclusivity
The United Nations has long championed the rights of PwDs, with the declaration of IDPD in 1992 to increase awareness about the challenges faced by disabled individuals and promote their well-being. The adoption of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) in 2006 further strengthened global commitments to disability rights, aligning them with the broader goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Disability rights in India
India has made significant strides in addressing disability rights. The introduction of the Accessible India Campaign (Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan) in 2015 was a landmark initiative aimed at creating a barrier-free environment for PwDs. This campaign targets the improvement of public infrastructure, transportation, and communication systems, ensuring that every Indian, regardless of ability, has access to the resources needed to live a full and active life.
A defining moment in India’s approach to disability empowerment came in 2015, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi introduced the term ‘Divyangjan’ to refer to persons with disabilities. The term, meaning “persons of divine abilities,” reflects a profound shift in perspective, moving away from viewing disability as a limitation to acknowledging it as a unique ability that adds value to society. This initiative was not just a change in language, but a powerful statement about the government’s commitment to reshaping societal attitudes towards PwDs.
Empowering Divyangjan: Government Initiatives
The Indian government has rolled out a series of initiatives aimed at empowering Divyangjan and ensuring their integration into every aspect of society. The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, which was established in 2012 and later renamed in 2014, has been central to coordinating efforts across ministries, states, and NGOs to create a more inclusive environment.
Noteworthy government schemes include
Deendayal Divyangjan Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS)
This initiative supports NGOs working on projects that help PwDs achieve their maximum potential through rehabilitation and social inclusion efforts.
District Disability Rehabilitation Centres (DDRC)
These centres focus on early identification and intervention, while also providing essential assistive devices and loans for self-employment.
PM-DAKSH Yojana: This skill training platform connects PwDs with employment opportunities across the country, helping bridge the gap between job seekers and employers.
Additionally, the Divya Kala Mela stands out as an important national event celebrating the contributions of Divyangjan artisans. It provides a platform for these individuals to showcase their craft, highlighting their skills and talents in the face of adversity.
The Vision of an Accessible India
The Indian government’s efforts to improve accessibility align with the vision of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas. Since 2014, accessibility-related issues have been a priority, with major steps taken to ensure that public spaces such as airports, railway stations, and transportation systems are accessible to all.
According to the 2011 Census, India has over 2.68 crore PwDs, accounting for 2.21% of the population. The government’s ongoing efforts through initiatives like the Accessible India Campaign aim to create a truly inclusive society, one where Divyangjan are not seen as individuals with limitations, but as active contributors to the country’s cultural and economic life.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-a-call-for-a-more-inclusive-and-sustainable-future/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: PM Modi to dedicate new criminal laws to Nation in Chandigarh
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 05:20:39 +0000
Content: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will today dedicate the successful implementation of three transformative criminal laws—Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, and Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam—to the nation in Chandigarh. The event is set to take place at 12 noon, marking a significant milestone in India’s legal and judicial transformation.
In a post on X, PM Modi expressed immense pride in the implementation of these laws, especially as they come into effect during the 75th anniversary of the adoption of the Indian Constitution. “This is a special day for our efforts to ensure speedy justice for all citizens and to break free from colonial-era legal frameworks,” he wrote.
The event will feature a live demonstration, showcasing the practical application of these laws, including a simulated crime scene investigation.
Implemented nationwide on July 1, 2024, these laws are designed to make India’s legal system more transparent, efficient, and responsive to contemporary challenges like cybercrime and organized crime, ensuring justice for victims and promoting a secure society.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/pm-modi-to-dedicate-new-criminal-laws-to-nation-in-chandigarh/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: Delhi’s air quality remains ‘poor’, SC maintains GRAP IV restrictions
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 05:15:22 +0000
Content: Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘poor’ category on Tuesday, with an average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 274—a marginal drop from Monday’s AQI of 273.
According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI readings at 8 a.m. showed Anand Vihar at 294, ITO at 235, IGI Airport (T3) at 256, and both Chandni Chowk and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium at 250. Other areas, such as Okhla Phase-2 recorded 277, while Punjabi Bagh and Wazirpur reached 298, all classified as ‘poor.’ Shadipur registered the highest AQI at 342, followed by Mundka at 325 and Jahangirpuri at 307. Nehru Nagar, RK Puram, and Rohini also reported AQI levels above 300.
An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor, and 401-500 severe.
On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to relax the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) IV measures aimed at curbing air pollution in Delhi, saying that relaxations will only be considered when AQI levels improve in the National Capital Region (NCR).
A bench comprising Justices Abhay S. Oka and A.G. Masih also noted that none of the NCR states—Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh—had complied with the court’s directive to compensate construction workers. The court ordered the chief secretaries of these states to attend the next hearing virtually.
Citing a lack of coordination between the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), Delhi Police, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), and other agencies, the Supreme Court directed the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) to ensure better communication and effective implementation of the mitigation measures.
The next hearing is scheduled for Thursday, when the court will decide whether the GRAP IV measures require modification.
(With ANI input)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/delhis-air-quality-remains-poor-sc-maintains-grap-iv-restrictions/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: Cyclone Fengal: Schools and colleges to remain closed in Tamil Nadu on Dec 3
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 05:12:33 +0000
Content: All schools and colleges will remain closed in four districts of Tamil Nadu on Tuesday due to heavy rainfall triggered by Cyclone Fengal, authorities said.
The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted further rain from the cyclonic storm. As a result, schools and colleges in Villupuram, Cuddalore, and Puducherry districts will also remain closed on Tuesday.
In other districts, including Ranipet, Salem, and Tiruvannamalai, only schools will remain closed. Additionally, in Kallakurichi, schools within the jurisdiction of Thirukovilur Town, and in Krishnagiri, schools in Pechampalli and Uthangarai Taluks will also be shut due to heavy rainfall.
A devastating landslide triggered by Cyclone Fengal’s torrential downpour struck Thiruvannamalai district on Monday, claiming seven lives, including five children.
Expressing his condolences, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh for the families of the deceased.
“I express my deepest condolences and sympathy to the families of those who died in this accident and have ordered that each family be provided ₹5 lakh from the Chief Minister’s General Relief Fund,” he said.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/cyclone-fengal-schools-and-colleges-to-remain-closed-in-tamil-nadu-on-dec-3/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 07:36:37

Title: Indian envoy summoned by Bangladesh foreign ministry, says two countries share multi-faceted ties
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 13:21:43 +0000
Content: Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, was summoned by the Bangladesh Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Tuesday, a day after protestors attacked the premises of the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission in Agartala.
Verma met with Bangladesh’s interim government acting Foreign Secretary, Riaz Hamidullah, to address the incident and discuss bilateral ties. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Verma emphasized the strength and depth of the relationship between the two nations, describing it as “wide-ranging and multifaceted.” He said that the relationship cannot be reduced to a single issue and reiterated India’s commitment to fostering a stable and constructive partnership with Bangladesh.
“We have a wide-ranging and multifaceted relationship. You cannot reduce it to one issue,” Verma said. “We want to build on the dependencies between the countries to achieve mutual benefit. There have been many positive developments in areas like power supply and essential commodities, and we remain committed to engaging based on the aspirations of the people.”
The meeting came in the wake of heightened security concerns after protestors breached the premises of the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission in Agartala on December 2. In response, India announced an increase in security measures for the Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi and other diplomatic properties across the country.
In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) expressed regret over the incident, adding, “The breach of premises at the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission in Agartala is deeply regrettable. Diplomatic and consular properties should not be targeted under any circumstances.” The ministry assured that immediate steps were being taken to enhance security for all Bangladeshi diplomatic establishments in India.
The diplomatic incident comes against the backdrop of rising tensions in Bangladesh, marked by escalating violence against minority communities. The unrest has been fueled by the recent arrest of spiritual leader Chinmoy Krishna Das on sedition charges, following allegations that he hoisted a saffron flag above Bangladesh’s national flag in Chittagong on October 25.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indian-envoy-summoned-by-bangladesh-foreign-ministry-says-two-countries-share-multi-faceted-ties/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: Muhammad Yunus, student leaders masterminds behind mass killings in Bangladesh: Sheikh Hasina
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 12:49:47 +0000
Content: Former Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday accused the interim government’s Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus of being the “mastermind of mass killings” and orchestrating attacks on minorities in Bangladesh.
Addressing an Awami League event in New York virtually, Hasina slammed Yunus for allegedly targeting Hindu temples, including ISKCON sites, and other religious places of the minorities in Bangladesh.
“Today, I have been accused of mass killings. In reality, it is Muhammad Yunus who is responsible for mass killings through a deliberate plan along with his student coordinators. They are the masterminds,” she asserted.
The minorities in Bangladesh, especially Hindus, have come under severe attack by Islamist elements in Bangladesh after the formation of the interim government in the country headed by Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus.
“Teachers and police are being attacked and murdered. Hindus, Christians, and Buddhists are being attacked. Many churches and temples are being targeted. Why are minorities being attacked?” she questioned, condemning the violence.
She also mentioned Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) leader Tarique Rahman’s recent remarks where he had suggested that, with continued violence, the interim government in Bangladesh would not last long.
Hasnat Abdullah and Sarjis Alam—the leaders of the so-called ‘Anti-Discrimination Student Movement’ that led to the fall of the government headed by Hasina in August—have been spewing venom against Hindus in the country while calling for an immediate ban on ISKCON Bangladesh, accusing the spiritual organization of “inciting unrest.”
Last week, after the Bangladeshi authorities arrested and jailed Chinmoy Krishna Das, a spokesperson of the Bangladesh Sammilit Sanatan Jagran Jote who is also associated with ISKCON Bangladesh, Hasina had strongly condemned the “tortures” inflicted on common people by the interim government in Bangladesh and called for the “immediate release” of the Hindu priest.
“A top leader of the Sanatan religious community has been unjustly arrested. He must be released immediately,” said Hasina.
The Bangladesh Awami League (AL) president and daughter of the ‘Father of the Nation,’ Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, had also highlighted several incidents of persecution of members of minority communities that have been reported from across 52 districts in Bangladesh since her resignation on August 5 this year.
“A temple has been burnt in Chittagong. Previously, mosques, shrines, churches, monasteries, and houses of the Ahmadiyya community were attacked, vandalized, looted, and set on fire. Religious freedom and security of life and property of people of all communities should be ensured,” she stated.
“After the killing of innumerable Awami League leaders and workers, students, and members of the law and order forces, harassment is going on through assaults and arrests. I strongly condemn and protest against these anarchist activities,” Hasina added.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/muhammad-yunus-student-leaders-masterminds-behind-mass-killings-in-bangladesh-sheikh-hasina/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: Amit Shah hails Chandigarh for pioneering India’s new criminal laws
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 12:15:53 +0000
Content: Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday praised Chandigarh for becoming the first city in India to fully implement the country’s new criminal laws.
These laws, including the Bharatiya Nyay Sanhita (BNS), Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS), and Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam (BSA), aim to modernize India’s legal system, making it more efficient and just. Shah said that these laws will be implemented across the country within the next three years.
Calling it “a golden day for the Indian criminal justice system,” Shah highlighted Chandigarh’s achievement, with police, courts, jails, and the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) collaborating to bring the reforms into effect. He emphasized that the outdated criminal laws, which were inherited from British colonial rule, were originally designed to serve British interests rather than the people of India.
“Earlier laws were 160 years old—they were made in the British parliament for the protection of British rule, not for the people. The laws that PM Modi has brought are made by Indians, for Indians,” Shah said. He stressed that the new laws prioritize delivering justice, not just punishment.
One key reform is the establishment of the “Director of Prosecution” role, aimed at curbing corruption in the legal process. Another significant change is the replacement of the term “sedition” (rajdroh) with “treason” (deshdroh).
Shah said that over 11 lakh FIRs (First Information Reports) have already been filed under the new laws, with 9,500 cases resolved within four months.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who also addressed the event, underscored the outdated nature of the old laws, which were designed by the British to suppress Indians.
“In 1947, after centuries of slavery, when independence was finally achieved, the nation had dreams and enthusiasm. But while the British left, the laws they created to enslave us remained.”
PM Modi criticized the post-independence continuation of colonial-era laws, stating, “These laws were a means of oppression. Even after independence, the same penal code and mindset continued, with small changes here and there. But the character of these laws remained intact.”
The new laws were crafted with extensive input from Chief Justices of India, High Court judges, legal experts, and civil society members. These reforms, which came into effect on July 1, aim to make India’s legal system more transparent, efficient, and suited to the needs of today’s society.
(ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/amit-shah-hails-chandigarh-for-pioneering-indias-new-criminal-laws/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: Unknown disease kills 143 in southwest Congo, local authorities say
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 12:03:29 +0000
Content: An unknown disease killed 143 people in Democratic Republic of the Congo’s southwestern province in November, local authorities told Reuters.
Infected people had flu-like symptoms, including high fever and severe headaches, Remy Saki, deputy governor of Kwango province, and Apollinaire Yumba, provincial minister of health, said on Monday.
A medical team has been sent to the Panzi health zone to collect samples and carry out an analysis in order to identify the disease.
The situation is extremely worrying as the number of infected people continues to rise, civil society leader Cephorien Manzanza told Reuters.
“Panzi is a rural health zone, so there is a problem with the supply of medicines,” Manzanza said.
Sick people die in their own homes for lack of treatment, Saki and Yumba said.
A local epidemiologist said women and children were the most seriously affected by the disease.
A WHO spokesperson said on Tuesday the UN health agency had been alerted to the presence of the disease last week, and it was working alongside Congo’s public health ministry to make further investigations.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/unknown-disease-kills-143-in-southwest-congo-local-authorities-say/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: SC orders Jacobite church to transfer administration of six churches to Orthodox church
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 12:02:50 +0000
Content: The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Jacobite Church to transfer the administration of six churches—three in Ernakulam and three in Palakkad districts of Kerala—to the Orthodox Church.
The apex court also mandated that the Orthodox faction must ensure the Jacobite faction retains access to common amenities within these churches, including burial grounds, schools, and hospitals, as stipulated under the 1934 Constitution. The court posted the matter for further consideration on December 17.
In issuing the directive, the court emphasized that the Jacobite Church was in contempt for “willfully disobeying” previous judgments that had ordered the transfer of these churches to the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church in accordance with the 1934 Constitution. It warned that failure to comply with this order would lead to contempt proceedings.
A bench of Justice Surya Kant and Justice Ujjal Bhuyan passed the order while hearing a batch of Special Leave Petitions filed by officials from the Kerala Government, Kerala Police, and members of the Jacobite Church. The petitions challenged an October 17 Kerala High Court order directing the District Collectors of Palakkad and Ernakulam to take possession of the six churches under Jacobite control and hand them over to the Orthodox Church.
The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, a non-Catholic Christian community in Kerala, has been divided into two factions for decades: the Orthodox faction, headquartered in Kottayam, and the Jacobites, who recognize the Patriarch of Antioch in Beirut as their spiritual leader.
The split between the two factions dates back to 1912. Although the Supreme Court facilitated a brief reunification in 1958, the factions separated again in 1970, engaging in a protracted legal battle over the control of churches. In 2017, the Supreme Court delivered its final ruling, affirming the Orthodox faction’s rights to administer the disputed churches.
Since the 2017 verdict, the Orthodox faction has taken control of several churches with High Court backing and police assistance. However, resistance from the Jacobite faction has delayed the transfer of some properties.
The court also highlighted that the 1934 Constitution remains the governing framework for the administration of these churches, underscoring its significance in resolving disputes.
In terms of numbers, the Orthodox Church is significantly larger than the Jacobite faction, which adds another layer of complexity to the ongoing dispute.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/sc-orders-jacobite-church-to-transfer-administration-of-six-churches-to-orthodox-church/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: 10 crore rural households mobilised into SHGs under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 11:43:01 +0000
Content: Over 10 crore rural poor households have been mobilised into over 90 lakh Self-Help Groups (SHGs) under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM), according to a report presented in the Lok Sabha by Minister of State for Rural Development, Chandra Sekhar Pemmasani, on Tuesday.
The mission focuses on identifying eligible rural poor households through the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 or a participatory identification of poor process validated by gram sabhas. These identified households are then organised into SHGs to access various livelihood and social security benefits.
Caste-wise data shows that 20 lakh SHGs belong to Scheduled Castes, 12 lakh to Scheduled Tribes, and 35 lakh to Other Backward Castes.
In its efforts to enhance social security, the government has enrolled 4.93 crore SHG members under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), 6.14 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), and 7.92 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) or state-specific health insurance during 2024-25.
The mission has provided seed capital of Rs. 831 crore to 2.51 lakh SHG entrepreneurs engaged in food processing activities under the Prime Minister Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM FME) Scheme. Additionally, women farmers have been supported through the Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Pariyojana for activities like organic farming, pest control, and branding of organic products.
In partnership with the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, the mission has facilitated access to milch animals for vulnerable families, enhanced productivity for small ruminants and poultry, and promoted fisheries-based livelihoods.
The government has also initiated socio-economic profiling of urban poor households to extend similar programs to urban areas. Pemmasani highlighted that DAY-NRLM continues to be a cornerstone in efforts to alleviate poverty and empower rural households across the country.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/10-crore-rural-households-mobilised-into-shgs-under-deendayal-antyodaya-yojana/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: UPI transactions may reach 25 billion by 2025
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 11:28:00 +0000
Content: India’s Unified Payments Interface (UPI) reached a milestone in October, recording 16.58 billion financial transactions in a single month, reflecting a 45% year-on-year growth from 11.40 billion transactions in October 2023. With ₹23.49 lakh crore transacted during this period, UPI continues to dominate India’s digital payment landscape.
UPI’s Rise and Transformation
Launched in 2016 by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), UPI has fundamentally reshaped India’s payment ecosystem. By consolidating multiple bank accounts into a single mobile platform, UPI has made financial transactions easier, faster, and more accessible for millions. Today, over 632 banks are connected to the platform, demonstrating UPI’s rapid adoption across the nation.
The Impact of UPI
The widespread adoption of UPI has benefited small businesses, street vendors, and migrant workers, who now have an easy and efficient way to handle payments. During the COVID-19 pandemic, UPI’s growth surged as people moved toward contactless, digital payments to minimize physical interactions.
An innovative feature that has contributed to UPI’s popularity is the use of voice boxes by payment apps, especially among small merchants. These devices announce transaction amounts, helping vendors keep track of their earnings without needing to check their phones. This simple but effective feature has fostered trust among small businesses that were initially wary of digital payments.
What Makes UPI Unique?
UPI’s success is driven by its simplicity, security, and versatility. The platform operates 24/7, supporting real-time transactions with just a few clicks. Its virtual address system protects users’ privacy, making digital payments secure and anonymous. UPI has also allowed users to integrate a variety of banking services into a single app, reducing the complexity of managing multiple financial accounts.
UPI’s Global Expansion
UPI’s reach has now extended beyond India, with the platform operational in seven countries, including key markets such as the UAE, Singapore, Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, France, and Mauritius. UPI’s entry into France is particularly noteworthy as it marks the first time the system has expanded into Europe. This global expansion enables Indian consumers and businesses to make seamless payments abroad.
India now leads the world in real-time payments, accounting for 49% of global transactions in 2023, as per the ACI Worldwide Report. With the continued rise of UPI’s international presence, India is setting new global benchmarks for financial inclusion and digital payment innovation.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/upi-transactions-may-reach-25-billion-by-2025/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: EAM Jaishankar briefs Parliament on India-China relations, highlights path towards de-escalation
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 11:27:55 +0000
Content: External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Tuesday reiterated India’s commitment to resolving the boundary issue with China through bilateral discussions, emphasizing that peace and tranquility in border areas are essential for normalizing relations.
Briefing the Lok Sabha on India-China relations, particularly regarding disengagement at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Jaishankar acknowledged that ties have been “abnormal” since 2020, following Chinese actions that disrupted peace along the LAC, leading to violent clashes in Galwan Valley. However, he pointed out that recent diplomatic engagements have steered the relationship “in the direction of some improvement.”
Reflecting on the disengagement process, he added, “The immediate priority was to ensure disengagement from friction points to avoid further clashes. This has been fully achieved. The next priority will be de-escalation, addressing the massing of troops along the LAC and related concerns.”
The minister highlighted the extensive consultations behind the three-year-long disengagement efforts, which included agreements to convene meetings of Special Representatives and Foreign Secretary-level mechanisms. He highlighted India’s three key principles for managing ties: strict adherence to the LAC, avoiding unilateral changes to the status quo, and full compliance with past agreements.
Recalling the events of 2020, Jaishankar described how the unprecedented deployment of Chinese troops disrupted patrolling and escalated tensions. Despite logistical challenges and the COVID-19 pandemic, India’s armed forces responded effectively, ensuring a strong counter-deployment. The Galwan Valley clashes, which marked the first fatalities in 45 years, underscored the seriousness of the situation, leading to sustained diplomatic efforts to restore stability.
The External Affairs Minister also traced the evolution of India-China relations since 1988, noting agreements on peace and confidence-building measures, including the 1993 pact on maintaining tranquility and the 2013 understanding on border defense cooperation. These frameworks underscore the gravity of the 2020 disruptions for bilateral ties.
Jaishankar’s statements come amid recent high-level engagements between Indian and Chinese officials. Last month, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met his Chinese counterpart, Admiral Dong Jun, in Laos, emphasizing the need to move from disengagement to de-escalation. This followed discussions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the BRICS summit.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/eam-jaishankar-briefs-parliament-on-india-china-relations-highlights-path-towards-de-escalation/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: Indian indices end higher, Sensex surges by nearly 600 points
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 11:21:39 +0000
Content: The Indian stock market closed on a positive note on December 3, 2024, with both the Sensex and Nifty posting substantial gains. The Sensex surged by 597.67 points, ending the session at 80,845.75, while the Nifty rose by 181.10 points, closing at 24,457.15.
Out of the 50 companies on the Nifty, 41 saw gains, while nine experienced declines. Among the top performers were Adani Ports, NTPC, Adani Enterprises, Axis Bank, and State Bank of India (SBI). On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Hero Motocorp, ITC, HDFC Life, and Sun Pharma were among the top laggards of the day.
LA Ambala, co-founder of Stock Market Today, attributed the market’s strength to prudent investment strategies focusing on long-term growth and value investing. Despite weak GDP growth, investors are targeting companies with solid fundamentals and strong order books, which are benefiting from policy-driven growth sectors. Many stocks are trading at discount levels, sparking renewed investor interest.
“Nifty has gained nearly 2% over the past six months and is trading above its 20, 50, and 200-day EMAs (Exponential Moving Average), making it a good opportunity for buying on dips, especially for intraday and swing trading,” Ambala added.
Ambala said that in the next session, Nifty could find support near 24,350 and 24,250, while resistance levels are likely around 24,560 and 24,700.
Domestic Institutional Investors (DIIs) are actively injecting liquidity into the market, supported by strong retail inflows through Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) and direct investments. However, Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) remain net sellers. Investors are advised to focus on long-term goals and consider accumulating mid-cap and small-cap stocks, which are expected to deliver higher returns over the next 2-3 years.
(ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indian-indices-end-higher-sensex-surges-by-nearly-600-points/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: 533 food and beverage complaints filed in consumer commissions over two years: Union Minister BL Verma
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 11:09:33 +0000
Content: A total of 533 complaints related to the food and beverage sector have been registered in consumer commissions across the country in the past two years, Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food, and Public Distribution BL Verma informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.
Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 88 cases, followed by Rajasthan with 88 and Haryana with 57 complaints.
Union Minister of State BL Verma provided the data in a written response to the Rajya Sabha.
The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), established in 2008 under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, plays a crucial role in regulating the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale, and import of food products to ensure they are safe and wholesome for consumption. The Act includes provisions for penal actions against substandard, misbranded, and unsafe food. To enforce these provisions, FSSAI conducts regular surveillance, inspections, and random sampling of food products, including milk, milk products, and baby food. Mobile food testing labs, known as Food Safety on Wheels, have also been introduced to extend testing facilities to remote areas.
The Consumer Protection Act, 2019, complements these efforts with stringent punishments under Sections 90 and 91 for offenses such as manufacturing or selling adulterated or spurious food products. Penalties, including imprisonment and fines, are determined based on the harm caused to consumers.
To streamline grievance redressal, the Consumer Protection (Consumer Disputes Redressal Commissions) Rules, 2020, waive fees for complaints involving goods or services valued up to ₹5,00,000. Additionally, the E-daakhil portal facilitates online filing of complaints, and video conferencing options are available for hearings. The Act mandates that complaints be resolved within three to five months, depending on the complexity of the case, with adjournments discouraged to ensure swift justice.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/533-food-and-beverage-complaints-filed-in-consumer-commissions-over-two-years-union-minister-bl-verma/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-03 13:42:30

Title: South Korea parliament rejects president’s martial law declaration
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:28:23 +0000
Content: President Yoon Suk Yeol declared martial law on Tuesday night in a move that stunned South Koreans and triggered a short-lived attempt by troops to enter parliament, as lawmakers and protesters quickly voiced opposition to the most serious challenge to the country’s democracy since the 1980s.
The speaker of parliament declared the martial law announcement invalid and lawmakers early on Wednesday voted to reject it.
Yoon’s move, which he cast as aimed at his political foes, was vocally opposed even by the leader of his own party, Han Dong-hoon, who was present for the vote in parliament and who has clashed with Yoon over the president’s handling of recent scandals.
Earlier, live television footage showed helmeted troops apparently tasked with imposing martial law attempting to enter the assembly building, and parliamentary aides were seen trying to push the soldiers back by spraying fire extinguishers.
Yoon said on Tuesday night that opposition parties had taken the parliamentary process hostage. He vowed to eradicate “shameless pro-North Korean anti-state forces” and said he had no choice but to take the measure to safeguard constitutional order.
Shortly after Yoon made his announcement on live TV, people began gathering outside the parliament building, some of them shouting: “Withdraw emergency martial law!”
“Arrest Yoon Suk Yeol” shouted others.
The military said activities by parliament and political parties would be banned, and that media and publishers would be under the control of the martial law command.
Yoon did not cite any specific threat from the nuclear-armed North, instead focusing on his domestic political opponents. It is the first time since 1980 that martial law has been declared in South Korea.
South Korea has had a series of authoritarian leaders early in its history but has been considered democratic since the 1980s.
The Korean won was down sharply against the U.S. dollar. A central bank official said it was preparing measures to stabilise the market if needed. Finance Minister Choi Sang-mok has convened an emergency meeting among top economic officials, his spokesman said in a text message.
Yoon’s predecessor, Moon Jae-in of the Democratic Party, said in a post on X that the country’s democracy is in crisis. “I hope that the National Assembly will act quickly to protect our democracy from crumbling,” he wrote in a post.
“I ask the people to join forces to protect and save democracy and to help the National Assembly function normally.”
The United States is in contact with the South Korean government and is monitoring the situation closely, a White House spokesperson said.
Some 28,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea to guard against the North. A spokesman for the U.S. military command did not answer repeated phone calls.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/south-korea-parliament-rejects-presidents-martial-law-declaration/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: South Korea President Yoon declares martial law
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:11:54 +0000
Content: South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol on Tuesday declared martial law in an unannounced late night address broadcast live on YTN television, claiming he would eradicate “shameless pro-North Korean anti-state forces”.
It is the first time since 1980 that martial law was declared in South Korea.
Yonhap news agency cited the military as saying activities by parliament and political parties would be banned, and that media and publishers would be under the control of the martial law command.
Yoon did not cite any specific threat from the nuclear-armed North, instead focusing on his domestic political opponents.
The surprise move sent shockwaves through the country, which had a series of authoritarian leaders early in its history but has been considered democratic since the 1980s.
The Korean won was down sharply against the U.S. dollar. A central bank official said it was preparing measures to stabilise the market if needed.
The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Some 28,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea to guard against the North. A spokesman for the U.S. military command did not answer repeated phone calls.
Yoon said he had no choice but to resort to such a measure in order to safeguard free and constitutional order, saying opposition parties have taken hostage of the parliamentary process to throw the country into a crisis.
“I declare martial law to protect the free Republic of Korea from the threat of North Korean communist forces, to eradicate the despicable pro-North Korean anti-state forces that are plundering the freedom and happiness of our people, and to protect the free constitutional order,” Yoon said.
Yoon did not immediately specify who constituted the pro-North Korean anti-state forces. But he has cited such forces in the past as hindering his agenda and undermining the country.
He did not say in the address what specific measures will be taken. Yonhap reported that the entrance to the parliament building was blocked.
“Tanks, armored personnel carriers, and soldiers with guns and knives will rule the country,” Lee Jae-myung, leader of the opposition Democratic Party, which has the majority in parliament, said in a livestream online. “The economy of the Republic of Korea will collapse irretrievably. My fellow citizens, please come to the National Assembly.”
Yoon cited a motion by the country’s opposition Democratic Party, which has a majority in parliament, this week to impeach some of the country’s top prosecutors and its rejection of a government budget proposal.
South Korea’s ministers on Monday protested the move by the opposition DP last week to slash more than 4 trillion won from the government’s budget proposal. Yoon said that action undermines the essential functioning of government administration.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/south-korea-president-yoon-declares-martial-law/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: Nepal’s Vice President calls for upholding rights of people with disabilities
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:07:22 +0000
Content: On International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPD), Nepal’s Vice President Ramsahay Prasad Yadav emphasized the importance of ensuring the identity and dignity of people living with disabilities, urging relevant agencies to enforce their constitutional rights.
Extending his best wishes to individuals with disabilities both in Nepal and abroad, Vice President Yadav highlighted the constitutional provisions that guarantee incentives and prerogatives in public service for people with disabilities. He called for these rights to be fully implemented to promote equality and inclusion.
The IDPD, observed annually on December 3, was established in 1993 to advocate for the rights, inclusion, and respect of individuals living with disabilities. This year’s theme, “Amplifying the leadership of persons with disabilities for an inclusive and sustainable future,” underscores the need for a society where their rights are respected and protected.
Nepali Congress President and former Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba also extended his wishes, urging collective efforts to build an inclusive society that upholds the rights of people with disabilities.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepals-vice-president-calls-for-upholding-rights-of-people-with-disabilities/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: China and Nepal sign nine-point MoU during PM Oli’s Beijing visit
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 15:28:11 +0000
Content: Nepal’s Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and Chinese President Xi Jinping met on Tuesday in Beijing, where the two nations signed a nine-point Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to enhance bilateral cooperation across various sectors, including trade promotion and technical assistance. The signing took place during the ongoing four-day visit of Nepal’s Prime Minister to China.
The agreement covers eight key areas of cooperation, with Nepal also expressing interest in a “No Loan Pact” concerning the projects under China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), signaling mutual understanding between the two countries. The visit marks a significant development in the relationship between Nepal and China, coming seven years after the signing of the BRI framework.
In a statement after the meeting, President Xi Jinping emphasized the importance of the Nepal-China relationship, highlighting that 2025 would mark the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two nations. He reiterated China’s commitment to advancing the strategic partnership with Nepal, acknowledging the country’s significant role in China’s neighborhood diplomacy.
Earlier, Chinese Prime Minister Li Qiang welcomed PM Oli at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, where the Chinese Liberation Army accorded a ‘guard of honor’ to the visiting leader. PM Oli also held a bilateral meeting with his Chinese counterpart to discuss various issues of mutual interest, including trade and infrastructure development.
Prime Minister Oli, accompanied by his spouse Radhika Shakya and a high-level delegation, laid a wreath at the Martyrs’ Monument in Beijing, commemorating the heroes of the Chinese revolution. Nepal’s Foreign Minister Dr. Arzu Rana Deuba, the chief secretary, and other senior government officials, along with representatives from the private sector and media, are part of the entourage.
The Nepali delegation is set to return to Kathmandu on December 5, wrapping up this high-profile diplomatic visit.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/china-and-nepal-sign-nine-point-mou-during-pm-olis-beijing-visit/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: India wants to maintain stable, constructive relationship with Bangladesh: Indian Envoy
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 15:12:36 +0000
Content: The High Commissioner of India to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, on Tuesday stated that New Delhi aims to build a positive, stable, and constructive relationship with Dhaka.
Speaking briefly to reporters at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Dhaka, the High Commissioner emphasized that India is committed to working with Bangladesh to fulfill the shared aspirations of both countries for peace, security, and development.
The envoy described the relationship between the two nations as “multifaceted and wide-ranging,” adding that it cannot be reduced to a single issue or agenda. He further stated, “There are many interdependencies, and we want to build on those interdependencies for mutual benefit.”
Earlier, the High Commissioner held a routine meeting with officials from Bangladesh’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/india-wants-to-maintain-stable-constructive-relationship-with-bangladesh-indian-envoy/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: “Govt committed to upholding honour, self-respect of Divyang people”: PM Modi
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 15:07:18 +0000
Content: Prime Minister Narendra Modi reaffirmed his government’s dedication to upholding the dignity, self-respect, and empowerment of persons with disabilities (Divyangjan) on the occasion of International Day of Persons with Disabilities.
In a post on X, PM Modi highlighted the transformative policies and initiatives implemented over the last decade aimed at improving the lives of Divyangjan. “Our government is committed to upholding the honour and self-respect of our Divyang brothers and sisters across the country. The policies and decisions we have made for them in the last 10 years are direct proof of this,” he wrote.
PM Modi also shared a detailed blog celebrating the courage, achievements, and contributions of Divyangjan, reflecting on India’s deep-rooted respect for inclusivity as enshrined in its cultural ethos and Constitution. “The Constitution of India inspires us to work for equality and upliftment of the poor. Over the last decade, we have laid a strong foundation for the progress of Divyangjan through inclusive policies,” he said.
The Prime Minister emphasized the significance of replacing the term “Viklang” with “Divyang” in 2014, a move that symbolized a shift in societal attitudes towards recognizing the abilities and contributions of persons with disabilities. He described this as a step toward creating a more inclusive environment where physical challenges do not hinder participation in nation-building.
Reflecting on landmark initiatives such as the Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan, launched nine years ago, PM Modi noted its impact in removing barriers and fostering accessibility in public spaces and transport. “Sugamya Bharat not only removed many obstacles from the path of Divyangjan but also gave them a life of respect and prosperity,” he added.
The Prime Minister highlighted legislative progress, including the implementation of the Persons with Disabilities Act, which expanded the definition of disability from seven to 21 categories, including acid attack survivors. This historic law, he said, has been instrumental in empowering Divyangjan and changing societal perceptions.
Acknowledging the achievements of Divyang athletes in the Paralympics and their contributions to various fields such as education, sports, and startups, PM Modi expressed pride in their role as partners in India’s development. “The honour our players have brought to the country in the Paralympics is a testament to their energy and potential. Their success stories inspire the nation,” he said.
Looking ahead to 2047, when India will celebrate 100 years of independence, PM Modi expressed confidence that the country’s Divyang population would serve as an inspiration to the world. “Let us build a society where no dream and goal is impossible. Only then can we create a truly inclusive and developed India,” he concluded.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/govt-committed-to-upholding-honour-self-respect-of-divyang-people-pm-modi/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: Must redesign global financial institutions, restructure debt to achieve SGDs in Global South: Amitabh Kant
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 14:41:13 +0000
Content: India’s G20 Sherpa, Amitabh Kant, emphasized the urgent need to redesign global financial institutions and restructure debt to help countries in the Global South achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Speaking at the 29th CII Partnership Summit in New Delhi, Kant highlighted the alarming reality that many nations in the Global South spend more on debt interest payments than on critical sectors like education and healthcare.
Addressing the session on “Development Through South-South Collaboration,” organized by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in partnership with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Kant underlined the pivotal role emerging markets are expected to play in driving global growth over the next three decades. He stressed the need for collective action, urging nations in the Global South to work together to foster sustainable development.
“The only way the Global South will grow, expand, and progress is through technology,” Kant said, pointing to India’s success in leveraging Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI). He emphasized that DPI’s open-source, interoperable framework ensures citizen data remains protected and free from monopolization by major tech companies.
Kant also proposed credit rating systems for companies based on their greenhouse gas emissions, highlighting the significant contribution of large corporations to global emissions.
The summit saw participation from international leaders who echoed Kant’s sentiments. Cambodia’s Deputy Minister of Commerce, Rithi Pich, underscored the importance of South-South cooperation in addressing resource and infrastructure disparities among developing nations. Similarly, Myanmar’s Deputy Minister of Commerce, Minn Minn, called for coordinated action to bridge economic divides and emphasized the potential of regional integration in fostering trade, investment, and tourism.
Vikramjit Singh Sahney, Member of Rajya Sabha and Chairman of Sun International Limited, called for a united stance among developing nations on international platforms to strengthen their position in trade and climate finance negotiations. He outlined five priorities—food, fuel, fertilizers, freight, and the future—that should shape South-South collaboration.
Speakers from across the globe, including Robert Appelbaum from South Africa and Nicholas Smedley from Australia, lauded India’s leadership in fostering regional partnerships. Smedley highlighted India’s geographic and economic strengths, along with its young workforce, as pivotal factors positioning the country as a key driver of growth in the Global South.
The summit concluded with a strong call for inclusive, technology-driven, and collaborative solutions to address the challenges faced by developing nations, reinforcing the critical role of South-South cooperation in shaping a sustainable future.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/must-redesign-global-financial-institutions-restructure-debt-to-achieve-sgds-in-global-south-amitabh-kant/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: Indian envoy summoned by Bangladesh foreign ministry, says two countries share multi-faceted ties
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 13:21:43 +0000
Content: Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, was summoned by the Bangladesh Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Tuesday, a day after protestors attacked the premises of the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission in Agartala.
Verma met with Bangladesh’s interim government acting Foreign Secretary, Riaz Hamidullah, to address the incident and discuss bilateral ties. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Verma emphasized the strength and depth of the relationship between the two nations, describing it as “wide-ranging and multifaceted.” He said that the relationship cannot be reduced to a single issue and reiterated India’s commitment to fostering a stable and constructive partnership with Bangladesh.
“We have a wide-ranging and multifaceted relationship. You cannot reduce it to one issue,” Verma said. “We want to build on the dependencies between the countries to achieve mutual benefit. There have been many positive developments in areas like power supply and essential commodities, and we remain committed to engaging based on the aspirations of the people.”
The meeting came in the wake of heightened security concerns after protestors breached the premises of the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission in Agartala on December 2. In response, India announced an increase in security measures for the Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi and other diplomatic properties across the country.
In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) expressed regret over the incident, adding, “The breach of premises at the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission in Agartala is deeply regrettable. Diplomatic and consular properties should not be targeted under any circumstances.” The ministry assured that immediate steps were being taken to enhance security for all Bangladeshi diplomatic establishments in India.
The diplomatic incident comes against the backdrop of rising tensions in Bangladesh, marked by escalating violence against minority communities. The unrest has been fueled by the recent arrest of spiritual leader Chinmoy Krishna Das on sedition charges, following allegations that he hoisted a saffron flag above Bangladesh’s national flag in Chittagong on October 25.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indian-envoy-summoned-by-bangladesh-foreign-ministry-says-two-countries-share-multi-faceted-ties/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: Muhammad Yunus, student leaders masterminds behind mass killings in Bangladesh: Sheikh Hasina
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 12:49:47 +0000
Content: Former Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday accused the interim government’s Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus of being the “mastermind of mass killings” and orchestrating attacks on minorities in Bangladesh.
Addressing an Awami League event in New York virtually, Hasina slammed Yunus for allegedly targeting Hindu temples, including ISKCON sites, and other religious places of the minorities in Bangladesh.
“Today, I have been accused of mass killings. In reality, it is Muhammad Yunus who is responsible for mass killings through a deliberate plan along with his student coordinators. They are the masterminds,” she asserted.
The minorities in Bangladesh, especially Hindus, have come under severe attack by Islamist elements in Bangladesh after the formation of the interim government in the country headed by Chief Advisor Muhammad Yunus.
“Teachers and police are being attacked and murdered. Hindus, Christians, and Buddhists are being attacked. Many churches and temples are being targeted. Why are minorities being attacked?” she questioned, condemning the violence.
She also mentioned Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) leader Tarique Rahman’s recent remarks where he had suggested that, with continued violence, the interim government in Bangladesh would not last long.
Hasnat Abdullah and Sarjis Alam—the leaders of the so-called ‘Anti-Discrimination Student Movement’ that led to the fall of the government headed by Hasina in August—have been spewing venom against Hindus in the country while calling for an immediate ban on ISKCON Bangladesh, accusing the spiritual organization of “inciting unrest.”
Last week, after the Bangladeshi authorities arrested and jailed Chinmoy Krishna Das, a spokesperson of the Bangladesh Sammilit Sanatan Jagran Jote who is also associated with ISKCON Bangladesh, Hasina had strongly condemned the “tortures” inflicted on common people by the interim government in Bangladesh and called for the “immediate release” of the Hindu priest.
“A top leader of the Sanatan religious community has been unjustly arrested. He must be released immediately,” said Hasina.
The Bangladesh Awami League (AL) president and daughter of the ‘Father of the Nation,’ Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, had also highlighted several incidents of persecution of members of minority communities that have been reported from across 52 districts in Bangladesh since her resignation on August 5 this year.
“A temple has been burnt in Chittagong. Previously, mosques, shrines, churches, monasteries, and houses of the Ahmadiyya community were attacked, vandalized, looted, and set on fire. Religious freedom and security of life and property of people of all communities should be ensured,” she stated.
“After the killing of innumerable Awami League leaders and workers, students, and members of the law and order forces, harassment is going on through assaults and arrests. I strongly condemn and protest against these anarchist activities,” Hasina added.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/muhammad-yunus-student-leaders-masterminds-behind-mass-killings-in-bangladesh-sheikh-hasina/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: Amit Shah hails Chandigarh for pioneering India’s new criminal laws
Publication Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 12:15:53 +0000
Content: Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday praised Chandigarh for becoming the first city in India to fully implement the country’s new criminal laws.
These laws, including the Bharatiya Nyay Sanhita (BNS), Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS), and Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam (BSA), aim to modernize India’s legal system, making it more efficient and just. Shah said that these laws will be implemented across the country within the next three years.
Calling it “a golden day for the Indian criminal justice system,” Shah highlighted Chandigarh’s achievement, with police, courts, jails, and the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) collaborating to bring the reforms into effect. He emphasized that the outdated criminal laws, which were inherited from British colonial rule, were originally designed to serve British interests rather than the people of India.
“Earlier laws were 160 years old—they were made in the British parliament for the protection of British rule, not for the people. The laws that PM Modi has brought are made by Indians, for Indians,” Shah said. He stressed that the new laws prioritize delivering justice, not just punishment.
One key reform is the establishment of the “Director of Prosecution” role, aimed at curbing corruption in the legal process. Another significant change is the replacement of the term “sedition” (rajdroh) with “treason” (deshdroh).
Shah said that over 11 lakh FIRs (First Information Reports) have already been filed under the new laws, with 9,500 cases resolved within four months.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who also addressed the event, underscored the outdated nature of the old laws, which were designed by the British to suppress Indians.
“In 1947, after centuries of slavery, when independence was finally achieved, the nation had dreams and enthusiasm. But while the British left, the laws they created to enslave us remained.”
PM Modi criticized the post-independence continuation of colonial-era laws, stating, “These laws were a means of oppression. Even after independence, the same penal code and mindset continued, with small changes here and there. But the character of these laws remained intact.”
The new laws were crafted with extensive input from Chief Justices of India, High Court judges, legal experts, and civil society members. These reforms, which came into effect on July 1, aim to make India’s legal system more transparent, efficient, and suited to the needs of today’s society.
(ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/amit-shah-hails-chandigarh-for-pioneering-indias-new-criminal-laws/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 02:46:29

Title: ‘Maha’ suspense over: Fadnavis is new Maharashtra CM, to take oath on Thursday
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 07:29:12 +0000
Content: The wait was over after 132 party legislators and five Independents supporting BJP on Wednesday unanimously elected Devendra Fadnavis as the legislature party leader. With this, he is set to take oath for the third time as the Maharashtra Chief Minister at a grand ceremony on Thursday.
The BJP core committee chose Fadnavis as its legislative leader, with prominent party members Chandrakant Patil and Sudhir Mungantiwar formally nominating him.
Speaking at the meeting, Maharashtra BJP President Chandrashekhar Bawankule hailed the party’s historic victory in the state elections, emphasizing that the Mahayuti alliance, under Fadnavis’ leadership, secured a historic mandate. “We contested 149 seats and won 132, the highest in history. Our allies won 57 and 41 seats, and with seven additional MLAs supporting us, we will have 237 members in this Assembly,” Bawankule said, reaffirming the party’s commitment to taking Maharashtra to the top with the support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
BJP leader Ashish Shelar was appointed as the party’s chief whip in the assembly.
The meeting was attended by BJP’s central observers for the state, Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and former Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani.
The ceremony for Fadnavis’ oath-taking is set to take place on December 5.
(With inputs from agencies)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-elected-leader-of-maharashtra-bjp-legislative-party/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: RBI MPC meet begins, focus on inflation control
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 07:22:55 +0000
Content: The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) began its three-day meeting on Wednesday, chaired by Governor Shaktikanta Das. The discussions will conclude on December 6, with the policy decisions scheduled to be announced on the same day.
The committee is expected to maintain the current repo rate at 6.5 percent, which has remained unchanged for the last nine meetings and the status quo may continue for some more time, as an immediate rate cut may not be easy for the MPC to justify, especially as their commentary has been assertive on durable disinflation being the primary mandate, experts said.
India’s GDP grew by 5.4 percent in the second quarter of the current financial year as the Consumer Price Index (CPI), stood at 6.21 percent in October, exceeding the RBI’s projection of 4.8 percent.
Emkay Global Financial Services said, “The timing and window of cuts are tricky and small amid fluid global dynamics, while the RBI may also want to weigh the FX cost of rate cuts (liquidity implication/sterilization cost, and imported inflation).”
Even as inflation is likely to ease by the end of March 2025 (led by easing food), it is far from the 4 percent durability the RBI has been seeking in order to avoid any feedback loop to generalised inflation. The recent RBI commentary has been assertive on this front, albeit with a presumption that growth is robust.
In October, the MPC left the repo rate at 6.5 percent and adopted a neutral stance. The standing deposit facility (SDF) rate was left unchanged at 6.25 percent, while the marginal standing facility (MSF) rate and the bank rate remained steady at 6.75 percent.
Data shows inflation in October exceeded the RBI’s upper tolerance limit of 6 percent, surging to 6.21 percent. Food inflation reached 10.87 percent, with vegetable inflation at 42.18 percent. Rural inflation stood at 6.68 percent, while urban inflation was comparatively lower at 5.62 percent.
Additionally, the economy grew by 5.4 percent in real terms during the July-September quarter of the 2024-25 financial year. This growth was significantly lower than the RBI’s forecast of 7 percent.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-mpc-meet-begins-focus-on-inflation-control/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: Man tries to shoot Sukhbir Badal at Golden Temple, arrested
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 05:49:09 +0000
Content: A gunman opened fire on Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal outside the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Wednesday morning.
Badal, who escaped unhurt, was performing guard duty as part of a religious punishment at the time of the attack.
The shooter, identified as Narayan Singh Chaura, a former militant, was swiftly overpowered by bystanders and arrested by police.
Visuals from the scene showed the gunman approaching the wheelchair-bound Badal, who was dressed in a blue ‘sewadar’ uniform and holding a spear. As the attacker drew his weapon, a nearby ‘sewadar’ reacted swiftly, pushing the shooter aside before any harm could be done.
Badal, 62, was carrying out his duties following the Akal Takht’s imposition of a religious punishment, known as ‘tankhah’, for mistakes committed during the SAD’s rule in Punjab from 2007 to 2017. The punishment required Badal and several Akali Dal leaders to perform various acts of service, including cleaning toilets, serving in the community kitchen, and reciting prayers.
Due to his health, Badal and another leader, Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, were assigned to serve as gatekeepers at the Golden Temple for two days. Badal, whose leg is in a cast, carried out the duty while seated in a wheelchair.
The religious punishment followed Badal’s public admission of mistakes, including his controversial decision to pardon Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in a 2007 blasphemy case.
(With IANS input)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/man-tries-to-shoot-sukhbir-badal-at-golden-temple-arrested/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: Over 43 lakh accounts opened under Mahila Samman Savings Certificate Scheme
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 05:45:01 +0000
Content: The Mahila Samman Savings Certificate Scheme (MSSC) has gained considerable traction, with a total of 43.3 lakh accounts opened by October 31.
Launched in March 2023 to commemorate the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the scheme is exclusively designed for women and minor girls. It aims to promote financial independence while furthering the government’s goals of financial inclusion.
Union Minister of State for Finance, Pankaj Chaudhary, provided this update in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha on December 3. He highlighted the importance of the scheme in helping women secure financial autonomy by offering an attractive interest rate.
The accounts under the scheme can be opened by a woman for herself or by a guardian on behalf of a minor girl. The deadline for opening an account is set for March 31, 2025.
The Mahila Samman Savings Certificate Scheme offers a minimum deposit requirement of ₹1,000 and allows a maximum deposit of ₹2 Lakhs, with a tenure of two years. The interest rate on the scheme is 7.5% per annum, compounded quarterly and credited to the account, making it a favorable option for women to grow their savings.
Additionally, the scheme provides the option of partial withdrawal and the possibility of premature closure under compassionate grounds.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/over-43-lakh-accounts-opened-under-mahila-samman-savings-certificate-scheme/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: French lawmakers brace for more turmoil as no-confidence vote looms
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 05:28:24 +0000
Content: French lawmakers will vote on Wednesday on no-confidence motions which are all but certain to oust the fragile coalition of Prime Minister Michel Barnier, deepening the political crisis in the euro zone’s second-largest economy.
Barring a last-minute surprise, Barnier’s will be the first French government to be forced out by a no-confidence vote in more than 60 years, at a time when the country is struggling to tame a massive budget deficit.
The debate is due to start at 4 p.m. (1500 GMT), with voting expected about three hours later, parliament officials said. President Emmanuel Macron is set to return to France from a state visit to Saudi Arabia during the day.
The government’s collapse would leave a hole at the heart of Europe, with Germany also in election mode, weeks ahead of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump re-entering the White House.
In a primetime TV interview on Tuesday night, Barnier said he remained open to budget talks with Marine Le Pen’s far-right National Rally (RN) and other parties, and expressed hope he could survive the no-confidence vote.
“It depends on the deputies who each have a share of responsibility before the French, before the voters, and before France too, which is in a rather serious moment,” he said.
Barnier warned there was “a lot of tension … a lot of feelings of injustice, a lot of feelings of anger,” in the air. “We must be careful.”
However, he rejected the idea, expressed by some members of his own centre-right party, that Macron should resign to unblock the crisis, calling the president “one of the guarantors of the stability of our country.”
Macron, on a visit to Saudi Arabia, was asked about mounting speculation he may not complete his mandate.
“I will honour this trust with all my energy until the last second,” he was quoted as saying by French media. His term runs until mid-2027 and he cannot be forced out by parliament.
Budget Minister Laurent Saint-Martin said bringing down the government and its budget plans would mean a larger deficit and more instability.
The risk premium investors demand to hold French government debt rather than German Bunds was close to its highest level in more than 12 years on Tuesday.
After weeks of tension, the political crisis came to a head when Barnier said he would try to ram the social security part of the budget through parliament without a vote after failing to win support from the RN.
Barnier’s entourage and Le Pen’s camp, which prop up the minority coalition, each blamed the other.
“Censuring the budget is for us the only way the constitution gives us to protect the French,” Le Pen told reporters as she arrived in parliament.
The left and the far right combined have enough votes to topple Barnier, and Le Pen has confirmed that her party would vote for a left-wing alliance’s no-confidence bill. The RN’s own no-confidence motion would not be backed by enough lawmakers.
RISK FOR LE PEN
Barnier’s draft budget sought to cut the fiscal deficit, which is projected to exceed 6% of national output this year, with 60 billion euros ($63 billion) in tax hikes and spending cuts. It aimed to drag the deficit down to 5% next year, with ratings agencies keeping a close eye on progress.
If the no-confidence vote does go through, Macron could ask Barnier to stay on in a caretaker role as he seeks a new prime minister, which could well happen only next year.
As far as the budget is concerned, if parliament has not adopted it by Dec. 20, the caretaker government could propose emergency legislation to roll over spending limits and tax provisions from this year. But that would mean that savings measures Barnier had planned would fall by the wayside.
The upheaval is not without risk for Le Pen, who has for years sought to convince voters that she can offer stability.
An Ipsos survey last month showed that some 50% of voters still consider the RN as dangerous for democracy – albeit 11 points lower than in 2020.
A poll by Odoxa showed that 59% of RN voters prefer Jordan Bardella, who is now party chief, to Le Pen, who is awaiting judgment in a trial over alleged misuse of EU funds. That could see her barred for running for public office for five years.
She denies any wrongdoing.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/french-lawmakers-brace-for-more-turmoil-as-no-confidence-vote-looms/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: UN seeks $47 billion in aid as donor appetite shrinks while crises multiply
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 05:26:43 +0000
Content: The United Nations on Wednesday sought $47 billion in aid for 2025 to help around 190 million people fleeing conflict and battling starvation, at a time when this year’s appeal is not even half-funded and officials fear cuts from Western states including the top donor, the U.S.
Facing what the new U.N. aid chief Tom Fletcher describes as “an unprecedented level of suffering”, the U.N. hopes to reach people in 32 countries next year, including those in war-torn Sudan, Syria, Gaza and Ukraine.
“The world is on fire, and this is how we put it out,” Fletcher told reporters in Geneva.
“We need to reset our relationship with those in greatest need on the planet,” said Fletcher, a former British diplomat who started as head of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) last month.
The appeal is the fourth largest in OCHA’s history, but Fletcher said it leaves out some 115 million people whose needs the agency cannot realistically hope to fund:
“We’ve got to be absolutely focused on reaching those in the most dire need, and really ruthless.”
The U.N. cut its 2024 appeal to $46 billion from $56 billion the previous year as donor appetite faded, but it is still only 43% funded, one of the worst rates in history. Washington has given over $10 billion, about half the funds received.
Aid workers have had to make tough choices, cutting food assistance by 80% in Syria and water services in cholera-prone Yemen, OCHA said.
Aid is just one part of total spending by the U.N., which has for years failed to meet its core budget due to countries’ unpaid dues.
While incoming president Donald Trump halted some U.N. spending during his first term, he left U.N. aid budgets intact. This time, aid officials and diplomats see cuts as a possibility.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/un-seeks-47-billion-in-aid-as-donor-appetite-shrinks-while-crises-multiply/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: Senseless, horrendous: UK MP Priti Patel condemns violence against Hindus in Bangladesh
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 05:22:13 +0000
Content: UK MP Priti Patel on Wednesday strongly condemned the ongoing violence against Hindu minorities in Bangladesh, calling it “senseless” and “horrendous.”
Patel, a Conservative MP and Shadow Foreign Secretary, urged the Bangladeshi government to prioritise the security and religious freedom of Hindus.
Patel expressed her concerns over the instability in Bangladesh and the attacks on religious minorities.
“These senseless acts of violence and the instability in Bangladesh are deeply concerning, and my thoughts are with all of those affected,” she said.
“The targeting of religious places of worship is horrendous, and I know many Hindus will be feeling frightened and fearful, especially given the impact of previous waves of violence,” she further said.
“The Bangladeshi government must ensure robust action is taken to protect life, prevent violence, and safeguard religious freedoms. I have called on the UK government to do all it can to support that work,” Patel added.
On Monday, British MPs, including Patel, raised concerns about violence against Hindus and other minorities in the Muslim-dominated nation during a parliamentary session, demanding a statement from Foreign Secretary David Lammy.
Patel stressed that the escalating violence in Bangladesh is deeply concerning.
Patel also highlighted the arrest of an ISKCON leader at a place of worship, describing it as a critical issue.
Addressing the House of Commons, she said, “There are deep and longstanding ties between our two countries, and the degree of escalation in the violence is deeply concerning. What we are witnessing now is uncontrolled violence in many quarters, and we are watching with horror and shock as further violence spreads in Bangladesh. Our thoughts in this House are most definitely with the diaspora community here and those affected in Bangladesh.”
She further said that the current instability in Bangladesh since the departure of former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in August has heightened global concerns.
“Many governments are condemning the violence and calling for peace and law and order to be restored,” she said.
Sharing the Parliament briefing in a post on X, she said, “I am deeply concerned by the awful violence we have seen in Bangladesh, and my thoughts are with those affected.”
“I called on the government to set out how they are engaging with the Bangladeshi government on this pressing and important issue. Robust action needs to be taken to protect life and prevent violence and persecution, including those based on religious beliefs,” she added.
The discussion in the UK Parliament was prompted by an urgent question tabled by Labour MP Barry Gardiner.
Responding to the query, Catherine West, Foreign Office Minister for the Indo-Pacific, stated that the Muhammad Yunus-led interim government had assured support for minority communities.
The atrocities against minorities in Bangladesh have drawn widespread condemnation from around the world.
US Congressman Brad Sherman also criticised the violence, stating that the Yunus government has “an absolute obligation to protect the minority Hindu community” following the fall of the democratically elected Sheikh Hasina-led government.
Meanwhile, tensions between New Delhi and Dhaka have been rising since August 5, when Sheikh Hasina fled to India following her ouster. Her departure was followed by a series of attacks by radical Islamists on minorities in the violence-stricken nation.
India has repeatedly expressed concern over the extremist rhetoric against Hindus in Bangladesh, urging the Yunus government to ensure the safety and security of Hindus and all other minorities.
(IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/senseless-horrendous-uk-mp-priti-patel-condemns-violence-against-hindus-in-bangladesh/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: South Korean lawmakers call to impeach President Yoon after back-track on martial law
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 04:54:32 +0000
Content: South Korean lawmakers on Wednesday called for the impeachment of President Yoon Suk Yeol after he declared martial law only to reverse the move hours later, triggering the biggest political crisis in decades in Asia’s fourth-largest economy.
The surprise declaration late on Tuesday ignited a standoff with parliament which rejected his attempt to ban political activity and censor the media, as armed troops forced their way into the National Assembly building in Seoul.
A coalition of lawmakers from opposition parties said they planned to propose a bill to impeach Yoon on Wednesday which should be voted within 72 hours.
“The parliament should focus on immediately suspending the president’s business to pass an impeachment bill soonest,” Hwang Un-ha, one of the MPs in the coalition, told reporters.
The leader of Yoon’s ruling People Power Party called for Defence Minister Kim Yong-hyun to be fired and the entire cabinet to resign.
Yoon told the nation in a TV address late on Tuesday that martial law was needed to defend the country from nuclear-armed North Korea and pro-North anti-state forces, and protect its free constitutional order, although he cited no specific threats.
Chaotic scenes ensued as helmeted troops climbed into the parliament building through smashed windows and military helicopters hovered overhead. Parliamentary aides sprayed fire extinguishers to push the soldiers back, and protesters scuffled with police outside.
The military said activities by parliament and political parties would be banned, and that media and publishers would be under the control of the martial law command.
But within hours of the declaration, South Korea’s parliament, with 190 of its 300 members present, unanimously passed a motion requiring martial law be lifted, including all 18 members present from Yoon’s party. The president then rescinded the declaration.
Protesters outside the National Assembly shouted and clapped. “We won!” they chanted, and one demonstrator banged on a drum.
More protests are expected on Wednesday with South Korea’s largest union coalition, the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, planning to hold a rally in Seoul and vowing to strike until Yoon resigns.
The U.S. embassy urged U.S. citizens in South Korea to avoid areas where protests were taking place, while some major employers including Naver Corp and LG Electronics Inc advised employees to work from home.
Financial markets were volatile with South Korean stocks falling around 2% and the won steadying after plunging to a two-year low, as dealers reported suspected intervention by South Korean authorities to stem the won’s slide.
Finance Minister Choi Sang-mok and Bank of Korea Governor Rhee Chang-yong held emergency meetings overnight and the finance ministry promised to prop up markets if needed.
“We will inject unlimited liquidity into stocks, bonds, short-term money market as well as forex market for the time being until they are fully normalised,” the government said in a statement.
The BOK said it will start special repo operations from Wednesday for local financial institutions to support smooth market functioning.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/south-korean-lawmakers-call-to-impeach-president-yoon-after-back-track-on-martial-law/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: PCB agrees to hybrid model for 2025 Champions Trophy, sets terms
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 04:50:03 +0000
Content: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has agreed to host the 2025 ICC Champions Trophy under the hybrid model, but only on the condition that the same model will be applied to their matches in future ICC tournaments held in India, as reported by ESPNCricinfo.
While talks are still ongoing, the PCB presented its proposal to the ICC and the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) during meetings in Dubai over the weekend. The PCB is advocating for a long-term agreement that stretches beyond the 2025 Champions Trophy, with provisions allowing Pakistan to play its matches outside India in future ICC events. However, it remains unclear whether this arrangement will apply for the next three years or until 2031, when the current rights cycle ends.
India is scheduled to host three major men’s tournaments by 2031: the 2026 T20 World Cup, which will be co-hosted with Sri Lanka in February; the 2029 ICC Champions Trophy in October; and the 2031 ICC Cricket World Cup, which will be co-hosted with Bangladesh in October-November. In women’s cricket, India is set to host the 50-over Women’s World Cup next year. The next Asia Cup, scheduled for October 2025, will also be held in India.
Earlier, PCB chairman Mohsin Naqvi said, “We will do what’s best for cricket. It is definitely not a hybrid formula, but if a new formula is formed, it will be an equal one,” Naqvi told reporters in a video posted by PCB media on X. “A one-sided arrangement is no longer acceptable. It cannot be the case that we continue to go to India, but they do not visit Pakistan. Whatever happens must be on the basis of equality,” he added.
The BCCI has remained silent on the matter, but indications suggest they may reject the hybrid model for tournaments hosted in India. The ICC Board is set to reconvene to examine the proposal from the PCB before making a final decision on the Champions Trophy. Both the BCCI and PCB will require the final decision to be ratified by their respective governments. The ICC has tentatively scheduled a meeting for December 5, as per ESPNCricinfo.
The options under consideration for the tournament remain similar to those discussed during the ICC board meeting last week: either India will play its games outside Pakistan under a hybrid model, the entire tournament will be moved to another country, or the tournament will proceed without India.
Due to strained political relations between the two nations, India has not toured Pakistan since 2008, when they participated in the Asia Cup. The two arch-rivals last played a bilateral series in India in 2012-13, consisting of white-ball matches. Since then, India and Pakistan have primarily faced each other in ICC tournaments and Asia Cups.
On Friday, Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal referred to the BCCI’s statement about “security concerns” and stated that it is “unlikely” that the Indian team will cross the border to play in Pakistan.
Notably, Pakistan has traveled to India for the 2016 World Cup and the 2023 ODI World Cup. Naqvi stressed that both nations should be treated equally under the same rules. “This is not acceptable that one-sided things happen. Every time Pakistan cannot play in India, we comply. Both nations must be treated equally under the same rules,” Naqvi asserted.
The BCCI has not yet issued an official statement regarding India’s inability to travel to Pakistan. The PCB also mentioned that it has not received any official explanation about this matter.
Since the last ICC meeting, a significant change has taken place within the ICC, with former BCCI secretary Jay Shah taking over as ICC Chair on December 1.
With just 77 days left until the tournament begins, the schedule has not yet been released. The ticketing process for the event has also not been announced, leaving fans uncertain about travel arrangements for the eight-team tournament, which is scheduled to start on February 19 and end on March 9.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/pakistan-agrees-to-hybrid-model-for-2025-champions-trophy-sets-terms/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: Indian stock market opens higher, Nifty above 24,500
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 04:35:19 +0000
Content: Indian stock market opens higher, Nifty above 24,500
The Indian stock market started on a positive note on Wednesday, with early gains driven by public sector enterprise (PSE) and information technology (IT) stocks. At 9:36 am, the Sensex climbed 248.37 points, or 0.31%, to 80,094.12, while the Nifty rose 76.90 points, or 0.31%, to 24,534.05.
The market trend remained positive. On the National Stock Exchange (NSE), 1,851 stocks were trading in green, while 409 stocks were in red.
Ajay Bagga, Banking and Market Expert, said, “Indian markets have rallied strongly over the last three sessions. FPI flows were positive for Tuesday. The global events are an overhang this morning. Korean drama of martial law, protests and lifting of martial law. US markets hit their 55th all-time high for CY2024, a record going back to 1929. Though Indian futures are indicating a muted start, overall the December seasonality favours a Santa Claus rally in India. The mood has turned from “sell on every rise ” to “buy in dips”.
The Nifty Bank index gained 127.60 points (0.24%) to 52,823.35, while the Nifty Midcap 100 index advanced 288.45 points (0.50%) to 57,797.45. The Nifty Smallcap 100 index climbed 158.45 points (0.83%) to 19,162.
Key gainers in the Sensex pack included NTPC, Tech Mahindra, L&T, ITC, TCS, Infosys, IndusInd Bank, M&M, and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Reliance, ICICI Bank, UltraTech Cement, and Hindustan Unilever saw declines.
Asian markets showed mixed trends, with Seoul, Bangkok, and China trading in the red, while Japan, Hong Kong, and Jakarta were in the green. In the US, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite closed 0.05% and 0.40% higher, respectively, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 0.17%.
On December 3, FIIs were net buyers in the Indian market, purchasing equities worth ₹3,664 crore, whereas domestic institutional investors (DIIs) sold equities worth ₹250 crore.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/indian-stock-market-opens-higher-nifty-above-24500/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 07:36:21

Title: Centre allocates Rs 1.03 lakh crore to rural schemes for the poor in current fiscal: Shivraj Chouhan
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:35:51 +0000
Content: Union Rural Development Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Wednesday that the Ministry has spent Rs 1.03 lakh crore on rural development and social welfare schemes so far in the current financial year, out of the total budget allocation of Rs 1.84 lakh crore.
“We are working tirelessly to fulfill the Prime Minister’s vision by connecting rural communities with employment opportunities and essential facilities,” Chouhan stated at a press conference.
The minister highlighted that under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G), a target of constructing 2.95 crore houses by March 2024 had been set. Of these, almost all have been sanctioned, and 2.67 crore houses have already been completed. Recognizing the program’s success and the ongoing demand for rural housing, the scheme has been extended to construct an additional 2 crore houses over the next five years at an estimated cost of over Rs 3.06 lakh crore.
To ensure no eligible family is excluded, the exclusion criteria have been relaxed. Conditions such as owning a mechanized fishing boat, refrigerator, or landline phone have been removed, while the income threshold for exclusion has been increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month.
Chouhan also explained that financial assistance for constructing these houses is being provided through various government schemes. Under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a 3% interest subvention is offered for projects up to Rs 2 crore, with a repayment period of seven years. Additionally, under the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI) Scheme, a 33.33% subsidy is provided for storage infrastructure, and margin money requirements for PACS (Primary Agricultural Credit Societies) have been reduced from 20% to 10%.
Each house under PMAY-G includes basic amenities such as toilets, cooking gas connections, and electricity through integration with schemes like the Swachh Bharat Mission, Ujjwala Yojana, and Saubhagya Yojana. Beneficiaries also receive 90–95 days of wage support under MGNREGA for constructing their homes. Furthermore, under the Pradhan Mantri Surya Ghar Scheme, solar rooftop connections are provided to reduce electricity costs.
So far, 38 lakh houses have been allocated to 18 states under the new target, with Rs 10,668 crore already disbursed. States have been urged to release their share promptly and submit proposals for further installments.
Highlighting the efficiency of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mechanism, Chouhan noted that over 10 lakh beneficiaries received their first installment in one click, authorized by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an event in Bhubaneswar. On September 17, 2024, PM Modi also approved 15 lakh houses and released Rs 3,180 crore for over 10 lakh beneficiaries. Additionally, more than 26 lakh houses have been handed over to their owners.
The minister also emphasized the ongoing development under PMGSY-III (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana), with 6,614 km of roads approved between June 9 and December 2, 2024. Another 2,337 km of roads were sanctioned under the PM-Janman scheme, and over 68,000 Amrit Sarovars (water reservoirs) have been constructed or revived.
Highlighting the empowerment of rural women, Chouhan mentioned that over 1.15 crore women have become ‘Lakhpati Didis’ through self-help groups under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM).
The government is also set to revamp the Jan MGNREGA App to enhance transparency and gather citizen feedback on the scheme’s implementation. Provisions for socially disadvantaged groups—50% SC/ST, 15% minorities, and 33% women—remain integral, with special attention to manual scavengers, persons with disabilities, and female-headed households.
Chouhan reaffirmed the government’s commitment to addressing any shortcomings in MGNREGA and PMAY-G implementation and promised that additional funds would be allocated if the demand exceeds initial estimates.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/centre-allocates-rs-1-03-lakh-crore-to-rural-schemes-for-the-poor-in-current-fiscal-shivraj-chouhan/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: Crunch time in France as lawmakers look set to oust Barnier’s government
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:22:44 +0000
Content: French lawmakers are all but certain to oust the governmentwith a no-confidence motionon Wednesday, plunging the euro zone’s second-biggest economic power deeper into political turmoil.
Barring a last-minute surprise, Prime Minister Michel Barnier’s government will be France’s first to be forced out by a no-confidence vote in more than 60 years, at a time when the country is struggling to tame a massive budget deficit.
That would leave a hole at the heart of the European Union at a time when Germany is also weakened and in election mode, weeks before U.S. President-elect Donald Trump re-enters the White House.
In a TV interview on Tuesday, Barnier said he still believed his government could survive the vote, scheduled for the evening after a debate starting at 4 p.m. (1500 GMT).
But far-right National Rally (RN) chief Jordan Bardella confirmed on Wednesday that his party would vote to topple Barnier alongside left-wing parties.
He said Barnier’s optimism showed that the government was “completely out of touch with what is happening in the country”.
“This government is dangerous for my country,” he told France Inter radio. “We will vote for the no-confidence motion.”
Barnier’s interior minister,Bruno Retailleau, was downbeat.
“Nothing’s over until the vote but we can see we’re headed towards censure (of the government),” he told CNews.
President Emmanuel Macron, who won a second mandate in 2022, precipitated the crisis by calling a snap parliamentary election in June.
His term as president runs until mid-2027 and he cannot be forced out by parliament, but the RN and the hard left have already been saying he should resign as he faces his biggest crisis since the Yellow Vest popular unrest of 2018-2019.
Since Macron called the election, France’s CAC 40 .FCHI has dropped nearly 10% and is the heaviest loser among top EU economies. The single currency is down nearly 4%.
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE PUTS BID TO CUT BUDGET DEFICIT AT RISK
Political uncertainty is already hitting France’s services sector, a monthly survey showed.
“The positive signals … that were seen over the summer, partly due to the Olympics, are now a thing of the past,” Hamburg Commercial Bank economist Tariq Kamal Chaudhry said after seeing the HCOB purchasing managers’ index for France’s service sector.
Barnier’s draft budget had sought to cut the fiscal deficit, which is projected to exceed 6% of national output this year, with 60 billion euros ($63 billion) in tax hikes and spending cuts. It sought to drag the deficit down to 5% next year.
The caretaker government could propose emergency legislation to roll over spending limits and tax provisions from this year. But that would mean Barnier’s savings measures falling by the wayside.
Barnier says the consequences of voting him out will be catastrophic for state finances, but RN lawmaker Laure Lavalette told TF1 TV: “There is no reason for this to lead to major chaos. Don’t play with fears … it’s not all going to crumble.”
Bond investors are likely to spare France the dire financial “storm” Barnier has warned of, but the fallout from the political crisis will hurt businesses, consumers and taxpayers, economists and experts say.
“This is a slow-burning crisis which will lead to an ongoing widening of spreads and an ongoing deterioration of sovereign creditworthiness,” said Union Investment’s head of fixed income and FX, Christian Kopf, who is underweight on French debt.
“But for the time being, I do not see the ingredients for this to totally get out of hand and morph into an outright sovereign debt crisis.”
If the no-confidence vote passes, Macron may well ask Barnier to stay on in a caretaker role as it could take until next year to find a new prime minister.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/crunch-time-in-france-as-lawmakers-look-set-to-oust-barniers-government/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: India expands world’s largest grain storage plan in cooperative sector
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:37:27 +0000
Content: Under the pilot phase of the ambitious World’s Largest Grain Storage Plan in the cooperative sector, godowns have been successfully constructed at Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) in 11 states across India. These include Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Telangana, Tripura, and Rajasthan.
The initiative, supported by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), and NABARD Consultancy Services (NABCONS), has achieved a total storage capacity of 9,750 metric tonnes.
Of the 11 constructed storage units, three—located in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Telangana—are retained for PACS’ own use. Another three facilities, in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat, have been hired out to state or central agencies, demonstrating the project’s versatility in addressing both local and institutional grain storage needs.
Encouraged by the success of the pilot phase, the government has extended the project. As of November 21, 2024, over 500 additional PACS across the country have been identified for the construction of godowns, further advancing the plan to enhance storage infrastructure at the grassroots level.
The initiative integrates subsidies and interest subventions through various government schemes, such as the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) and the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Scheme (AMI). Under the AIF scheme, PACS receive a 3% interest subvention on loans up to ₹2 crore, with a repayment tenure of seven years (2+5 years). The AMI scheme provides a 33.33% subsidy to PACS for constructing storage units, while also reducing the margin money requirement from 20% to 10%.
Additionally, PACS receive subsidies for ancillary infrastructure such as boundary walls and drainage systems, capped at one-third of the total permissible subsidy for the godown or the actual cost—whichever is lower.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/india-expands-worlds-largest-grain-storage-plan-in-cooperative-sector/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: Nepal, China sign deal on Belt and Road plan, paving way for progress on projects
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:16:00 +0000
Content: Nepal has signed a framework agreement with China on the Belt and Road initiative, after an initial pact was signed seven years ago but no progress made since, paving the way for cooperation on projects, its foreign ministry said on Wednesday.
Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has been in Beijing since Monday on a four-day visit, his first to a foreign country since his July swearing-in, breaking tradition by not making New Delhi, with which Kathmandu has centuries-old ties, his first foreign port of call.
Nepal and China signed an initial deal in 2017 for President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative, which aims to build China’s infrastructure and trade links with the world.
However, no projects have been planned or begun in the past seven years, as a framework for cooperationhad not been set and as Nepal struggled to get consensus from its political parties.
The signing of the deal on Wednesday implies that both countries will now move ahead with details of projects, which may include road upgrades and transportation corridors, and how to finance them.
Debt concerns have, meanwhile, spurred debate within Oli’s coalition government, with the Nepali Congress party, a key supporter of Oli, opposing any project funded by loans.
Nepal and China “signed the Framework for Belt and Road Cooperation today,” Nepal’s foreign ministry said in a post on X, without giving details.
China has loaned Nepal $216 million to build an international airport in Pokhara, the second-largest city about 125 km (80 miles) west of Kathmandu, which began operating last year.
But the Chinese-built airport, claimed by Beijing as a symbol of Belt and Road success, has grappled with problems such as a lack of international flights, due to India’s refusal to let planes use its airspace.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepal-china-sign-deal-on-belt-and-road-plan-paving-way-for-progress-on-projects/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: ISRO’s PROBA-3 satellite launch rescheduled to December 5
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:08:23 +0000
Content: The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has rescheduled the launch of the PSLV-C59/PROBA-3 satellite mission to December 5 at 4:12 PM, following the detection of an anomaly on Wednesday. The launch was originally scheduled for today (Wednesday) at 4:08 PM from the first launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh.
“Due to an anomaly detected in PROBA-3 spacecraft, PSLV-C59/PROBA-3 launch has been rescheduled to tomorrow at 16:12 hours,” ISRO announced in a post on X.
The PSLV-C59 mission, a collaborative initiative between ISRO and NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), will deploy a payload of approximately 550 kg into a highly elliptical orbit. Proba-3, ESA’s first precision formation-flying mission, will be the centerpiece of this launch, representing a major milestone in global space technology.
Proba-3 comprises two satellites designed to operate in tandem, maintaining a fixed configuration in space as though they form a single rigid structure. This technology demonstration mission aims to validate advanced formation flying and rendezvous technologies. The two satellites will form a 150-meter-long solar coronagraph, enabling unprecedented studies of the Sun’s faint corona near the solar rim.
ESA highlighted that this mission is not only a groundbreaking science experiment but also a demonstration of precise positioning technologies using innovative metrology sensors and control algorithms. Proba-3 will serve as an orbital laboratory, advancing capabilities in acquisition, rendezvous, proximity operations, and formation flying, which will revolutionize future space missions.
The mission includes the Coronagraph Spacecraft (CSC) and the Occulter Spacecraft (OSC), which will be launched in a “stacked configuration.” Once in orbit, these satellites will align with the Sun to block its brilliant disk, allowing continuous observation of the faint solar corona, the Sun’s outer atmosphere.
ISRO shared updates on the launch via its social media platform, adding, “Countdown is progressing smoothly as PSLV-C59, an initiative led by NSIL and supported by ISRO’s expertise, prepares to launch ESA’s Proba-3 satellites into a highly elliptical orbit.”
The PSLV-C59 launch will involve four stages, with multiple ignitions and separation stages until the Proba-3 satellites are released into orbit. The total lift-off mass of the launch vehicle is approximately 320 tonnes, reflecting the PSLV’s robust capabilities. Notably, the PSLV is India’s first launch vehicle equipped with liquid stages, achieving its first successful launch in October 1994.
The Proba-3 mission is categorized as an “In-Orbit Demonstration (IOD)” by ESA.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/isros-proba-3-satellite-launch-rescheduled-to-december-5/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: Djokovic to compete in Brisbane International for first time since 2009
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 11:53:20 +0000
Content: The 2025 Brisbane International, scheduled to begin on December 29 at Pat Rafter Arena, announced a star-studded lineup of 61 professional tennis players, headlined by 24-time Grand Slam champion Novak Djokovic.
Djokovic, a 10-time Australian Open champion and the holder of 99 career titles, will play at the Brisbane International for the first time since its inaugural year in 2009. The Serbian great is aiming for his 100th title and is excited to return to Brisbane, where he competed in the tournament’s first edition.
“I’m excited to be kicking off my Australian swing at the Brisbane International and to compete again at Pat Rafter Arena. I’m looking forward to experiencing the incredible support from the Australian fans and making this tournament one to remember,” Djokovic said.
Djokovic will headline the ATP 250 event alongside defending champion Grigor Dimitrov (No. 10), Holger Rune (No. 13), and Frances Tiafoe (No. 18).
The men’s field also features three Australians: Nick Kyrgios (PR 21), Alexei Popyrin (No. 24), and Jordan Thompson (No. 26), along with Sebastian Korda (No. 22), Matteo Berrettini (No. 34), and Gaël Monfils (No. 55).
The WTA 500 event boasts an equally impressive roster, headlined by world No. 1 Aryna Sabalenka. Joining her are three other top-10 players: Jessica Pegula (No. 7), Emma Navarro (No. 8), and Daria Kasatkina (No. 9).
Former Brisbane International champion and two-time Australian Open winner Victoria Azarenka (No. 20) will also make her return, adding prestige to a lineup that includes 11 players ranked in the top 20.
In total, 11 top-20 players, including former Brisbane International champion Victoria Azarenka (No. 20), will feature in the event.
Brisbane International Tournament Director Cam Pearson expressed his excitement about the 2025 lineup. “We are thrilled to have Novak headlining the Brisbane International 2025, along with world No. 1 Aryna Sabalenka. This is by far the strongest field the tournament has seen, with 15 of the top-20 men and women players confirmed,” Pearson said.
Highlighting the importance of Australian representation, Pearson added: “Multiple highly ranked Australians will inspire the next generation of tennis fans, and the event will be huge. I cannot wait for the tournament to get underway and for all the fans to experience the world’s best right here in Brisbane.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/djokovic-to-compete-in-brisbane-international-for-first-time-since-2009/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: Stock market ends higher, outlook remains positive
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 11:52:14 +0000
Content: Indian indices closed higher on Wednesday, with gains in defence stocks and robust growth in the services sector providing support. The Sensex surged by 110.58 points to end at 80,956.33, while the Nifty rose marginally by 2.35 points, settling at 24,461.25. Despite these gains, market breadth was negative, as 19 Nifty companies recorded advances while 31 declined.
In the Nifty index, HDFC Life, HDFC Bank, NTPC, Apollo Hospital, and Bajaj Finserv were among the top gainers. Meanwhile, Bharti Airtel, Cipla, Bajaj Auto, Adani Ports, and Tata Motors led the decliners, reflecting a mixed performance across sectors.
Defence stocks saw significant traction following the Defence Acquisition Council’s (DAC) approval of acquisition proposals worth ₹21,772 crore. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders and Garden Reach Shipbuilders surged nearly 5%, while Bharat Electronics, Hindustan Aeronautics, and Bharat Dynamics posted gains of 2-3%.
VLA Ambala, Co-Founder of Stock Market Today, said that the DAC’s approval strengthened the portfolios of defence companies, sparking strong buying interest. “This highlights the growing prominence of the defence sector in the market,” Ambala said.
India’s services sector continued its expansion in November, driven by strong domestic and international demand. The sector witnessed record hiring and improved business sentiment, despite facing the sharpest price hikes in a decade. This growth bolstered overall market optimism and provided additional support to the indices.
Ambala also analyzed technical trends, pointing out that the Nifty tested the 24,500 level and formed a “Doji candlestick pattern” on the daily chart. This pattern is often seen as a signal for a favorable outlook in the mid-to-long term. Ambala suggested that investors focus on accumulating quality mid-cap and small-cap stocks for potential gains.
(ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/stock-market-ends-higher-outlook-remains-positive/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: Maharashtra Governor invites Fadnavis to form govt, swearing-in on Thursday in presence of PM Modi
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 11:49:48 +0000
Content: Leaders of the Mahayuti alliance in Maharashtra – BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, Shiv Sena chief Eknath Shinde, and NCP President Ajit Pawar – met Governor C.P. Radhakrishnan on Wednesday to stake their claim to form the state government.
Shinde and Pawar presented their letters of support for Fadnavis as the chief minister, after he was unanimously elected as the leader of the BJP legislative party.
Following this, the Governor formally invited the Mahayuti alliance to form the government.
Fadnavis later told reporters that the swearing-in ceremony would take place on Thursday at 5.30 pm in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He added that he had met Shinde on Tuesday and invited him to join the government.
“I am sure that he (Shinde) will accept my request. Similar appeals have been made by the Shiv Sena legislators. During the last two-and-half years, we (Eknath Shinde, Ajit Pawar and myself) together took decisions for Maharashtra’s development. We will decide by late evening how many ministers will take oath tomorrow,” Fadnavis said.
“I am thankful to the PM for giving me an opportunity to serve the state. I also thank Home Minister Amit Shah, party president J.P. Nadda and Union Minister Ramdas Athavale for their support,” he added.
Ajit Pawar also confirmed that he would take the oath on Thursday.
“We will work together to develop Maharashtra. We have experience helping various sections. The Centre is with us. There is a huge majority. There is no scope for any possibility of discontent. We will make efforts to fulfil all promises given to the people ahead of the Assembly election,” said Pawar.
Eknath Shinde, for his part, reflected on his past collaboration with Fadnavis.
“Five years ago, Devendra Fadnavis had made a recommendation to the Governor for me to become the chief minister. Today, I have extended Shiv Sena’s support to Devendra Fadnavis as the chief minister. I had already said that I will abide by the decision taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on government formation,” Shinde said.
He also invited everyone to the swearing-in ceremony and expressed his respect for Fadnavis’s request to join the government.
“We as Mahayuti partners were working together as a common man’s government. We took decisions for welfare and development schemes. The projects stalled by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government were revived. We made efforts to transform the lives of the common man,” he added.
(with IANS input)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/maharashtra-governor-invites-fadnavis-to-form-govt-swearing-in-on-thursday-in-presence-of-pm-modi/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: Team India bans open net practice after 5,000 fans turn up at Adelaide Oval
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 11:19:16 +0000
Content: Team India decided to ban its open net practice sessions after more than 5,000 spectators gathered at the Adelaide Oval to watch the team, as reported by The Age.
The players reportedly felt uncomfortable with the carnival-like atmosphere in the stadium during the open session.
“India has expressed a preference for their remaining training sessions not to be open to the public to minimize potential noise or distractions,” a Cricket Australia (CA) spokesperson said.
Australia’s practice sessions will continue to be open to the public, according to the report.
With India ramping up its preparations for the second Test, players engaged in intense throwdown sessions, and bowlers faced star players on Tuesday. The highlight of the entire session was when Virat Kohli faced Jasprit Bumrah at the other end.
The battle began with Kohli letting a couple of balls pass. Then Bumrah upped the ante, as Kohli, who was covering his stumps, saw the ball go past his off-stump.
Kohli showed his class with an impeccable backfoot punch, demonstrating how focused he was while facing India’s ace quick.
One of the most notable things throughout the training session was the movement off the pitch that Bumrah was able to generate. While bowling around the wicket, Bumrah easily beat Rishabh Pant’s outside edge.
India are currently 1-0 up in the BGT series following their record-breaking 295-run victory in Perth. The second Test will be played in a day-night format in Adelaide, beginning on Friday.
Australia squad (for second Test): Pat Cummins (C), Scott Boland, Alex Carey (WK), Josh Hazlewood, Travis Head, Josh Inglis, Usman Khawaja, Marnus Labuschagne, Nathan Lyon, Mitch Marsh, Nathan McSweeney, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc, Beau Webster.
India squad: Rohit Sharma (C), Jasprit Bumrah (VC), Yashasvi Jaiswal, KL Rahul, Abhimanyu Easwaran, Devdutt Padikkal, Shubman Gill, Virat Kohli, Rishabh Pant, Sarfaraz Khan, Dhruv Jurel, Ravichandran Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Mohammed Siraj, Akash Deep, Prasidh Krishna, Harshit Rana, Nitish Kumar Reddy, Washington Sundar.
Reserves: Mukesh Kumar, Navdeep Saini, Khaleel Ahmed, Yash Dayal.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/team-india-bans-open-net-practice-after-5000-fans-turn-up-at-adelaide-oval/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: Religious tourism fuels residential boom in tier-2 cities: report
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 11:03:07 +0000
Content: Tier-2 cities with a strong religious tourism appeal, including Prayagraj, Varanasi, Puri, and Shirdi, are witnessing a significant surge in residential demand, according to a report by Magicbricks.
This growing interest is driven by a mix of self-use, investment, and rental opportunities, with these cities leveraging their cultural and spiritual significance to attract buyers.
Prayagraj, home to the sacred confluence of rivers, recorded a remarkable 28% year-on-year (YoY) increase in demand, while the historic city of Varanasi saw an 18% rise. Puri, known for its iconic Lord Jagannath Temple, posted an impressive 52% growth, and Shirdi, famous for the Sai Baba shrine, led the pack with a 67% surge in buyer interest.
The residential demand extends beyond permanent homes, with buyers exploring holiday homes, bed-and-breakfast (BnB) ventures, and long-term investments to capitalize on the growing influx of tourists.
Pricing trends in these cities reveal a dynamic market. While Varanasi experienced a 5.15% drop in prices due to increased supply, it remains attractive with an average rate of Rs 6,128 per square foot (psf). Prayagraj saw a dramatic 122% price spike earlier in 2024 due to high demand, though rates have now stabilized at Rs 6,645 psf.
Puri has seen a steady 30% appreciation over the last year, with prices reaching Rs 6,114 psf. Shirdi, with an average rate of Rs 4,028 psf, stands out as one of the most affordable yet lucrative markets for buyers.
The surge in demand is attributed to the rise in religious tourism, enhanced infrastructure, and the potential for rental income from short-term accommodations catering to pilgrims and tourists.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/religious-tourism-fuels-residential-boom-in-tier-2-cities-report/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-04 13:42:43

Title: RBI raises UPI lite wallet limit to Rs 5,000
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 17:08:49 +0000
Content: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has increased the wallet limit for UPI Lite from ₹2,000 to ₹5,000. The new guidelines, announced on Wednesday, also raised the upper transaction limit under the offline framework from ₹500 to ₹1,000 per transaction.
According to the RBI’s circular, the revised limits are effective immediately, enabling users to make higher-value transactions conveniently while maintaining the simplicity and security of UPI Lite. “The enhanced limits for UPI Lite shall be ₹1,000 per transaction, with ₹5,000 being the total limit at any point in time,” the circular said.
Previously, the offline framework permitted a maximum of ₹500 per transaction and a total limit of ₹2,000 for payment instruments. The updated framework is expected to streamline digital payments for day-to-day purchases and provide a more robust and inclusive digital payment experience for consumers.
The RBI clarified that the changes have been implemented under the authority of Section 18, read with Section 10(2) of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. This initiative aligns with the central bank’s ongoing efforts to promote digital transactions while ensuring ease of use and enhanced security for consumers.
Earlier, in October 2024, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had announced an increase in transaction limits for UPI services during the monetary policy briefing, emphasizing the growing importance of digital payment platforms in India’s economy.
The updated limits come at a time when Unified Payments Interface (UPI) continues to set milestones in the digital payment space. In October 2024, UPI achieved a record-breaking 16.58 billion financial transactions in a single month.
Since its launch in 2016 by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), UPI has revolutionized the country’s payment system, integrating multiple bank accounts into a single mobile application for seamless fund transfers, peer-to-peer transactions, and merchant payments.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-raises-upi-lite-wallet-limit-to-rs-5000/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: “Trying to deepen our relationship with India,” says Bangladesh Press Secy ahead of FS Misri’s visit
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 15:33:02 +0000
Content: Bangladesh is set to host Indian Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri amid heightened tensions between the two nations, with Shafiqul Alam, Press Secretary to the Chief Advisor of Bangladesh’s interim government, Muhammad Yunus, emphasizing the intent to strengthen bilateral ties.
Alam expressed optimism about the upcoming discussions between the foreign secretaries of both nations, stating that the talks would focus on mutual interests and help bolster the relationship. He said, “We were looking forward to the Indian Foreign Secretary’s visit. Both sides are keen to discuss issues of mutual interest, and we hope these meetings will deepen ties between the two neighbors.”
Addressing the state of India-Bangladesh relations, Alam said, “Our relationship with India remains steady, and we are working to improve it further. Both nations are trying to deepen their ties, and we are hopeful that relations will grow stronger in the coming days and months.”
The Press Secretary’s comments come a day after Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, was summoned by Bangladesh’s Foreign Ministry following a protest attack on the premises of the Bangladesh acting High Commission in Agartala. During the meeting, Verma engaged with Riaz Hamidullah, acting Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh’s interim government, to discuss the incident.
Following the meeting, Verma reiterated India’s commitment to fostering a robust and cooperative relationship with Bangladesh. Speaking to reporters, he said, “India and Bangladesh share a wide-ranging and multifaceted relationship that cannot be defined by a single issue. We aim to build a stable, constructive, and mutually beneficial partnership.”
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/trying-to-deepen-our-relationship-with-india-says-bangladesh-press-secy-ahead-of-fs-misris-visit/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: Nepal’s Industry Minister Bhandari meets India’s Piyush Goyal to attract Indian investment
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:48:18 +0000
Content: Nepal’s Minister for Industry, Commerce, and Supplies, Damodar Bhandari, met India’s Minister for Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, in New Delhi on Monday to discuss matters of bilateral trade and investment.
During the meeting, Minister Bhandari urged Goyal to address the challenges posed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) requirements imposed on Nepali exports such as cement, plywood, and shoes.
The two ministers also held positive discussions on amending the Treaty of Transit to facilitate smoother trade operations. It was agreed to organize a Commerce Secretary-level meeting in Nepal soon to further advance cooperation in trade and transit.
Highlighting Nepal’s immense investment potential, Bhandari emphasized the country’s investor-friendly environment and urged Goyal to encourage Indian investors to explore opportunities in Nepal.
Minister Bhandari also met India’s Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri, to review progress on energy cooperation since their last meeting in August 2024. Discussions focused on ongoing and new infrastructure projects, including the signing of a B2B agreement between Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC).
The talks underscored strengthening energy ties between the two nations, with a focus on ensuring uninterrupted supply of petroleum, oil, and lubricants to Nepal. Both parties agreed to expedite the construction of the Siliguri-Jhapa and Amlekhgunj-Chitwan pipelines, along with associated terminals, to enhance cross-border energy connectivity.
Minister Puri invited Nepal to join the Global Biofuels Alliance to unlock its biofuels potential, signaling further avenues for cooperation in sustainable energy.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepals-industry-minister-bhandari-meets-indias-piyush-goyal-to-attract-indian-investment/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: Centre allocates Rs 1.03 lakh crore to rural schemes for the poor in current fiscal: Shivraj Chouhan
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:35:51 +0000
Content: Union Rural Development Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Wednesday that the Ministry has spent Rs 1.03 lakh crore on rural development and social welfare schemes so far in the current financial year, out of the total budget allocation of Rs 1.84 lakh crore.
“We are working tirelessly to fulfill the Prime Minister’s vision by connecting rural communities with employment opportunities and essential facilities,” Chouhan stated at a press conference.
The minister highlighted that under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G), a target of constructing 2.95 crore houses by March 2024 had been set. Of these, almost all have been sanctioned, and 2.67 crore houses have already been completed. Recognizing the program’s success and the ongoing demand for rural housing, the scheme has been extended to construct an additional 2 crore houses over the next five years at an estimated cost of over Rs 3.06 lakh crore.
To ensure no eligible family is excluded, the exclusion criteria have been relaxed. Conditions such as owning a mechanized fishing boat, refrigerator, or landline phone have been removed, while the income threshold for exclusion has been increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month.
Chouhan also explained that financial assistance for constructing these houses is being provided through various government schemes. Under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a 3% interest subvention is offered for projects up to Rs 2 crore, with a repayment period of seven years. Additionally, under the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI) Scheme, a 33.33% subsidy is provided for storage infrastructure, and margin money requirements for PACS (Primary Agricultural Credit Societies) have been reduced from 20% to 10%.
Each house under PMAY-G includes basic amenities such as toilets, cooking gas connections, and electricity through integration with schemes like the Swachh Bharat Mission, Ujjwala Yojana, and Saubhagya Yojana. Beneficiaries also receive 90–95 days of wage support under MGNREGA for constructing their homes. Furthermore, under the Pradhan Mantri Surya Ghar Scheme, solar rooftop connections are provided to reduce electricity costs.
So far, 38 lakh houses have been allocated to 18 states under the new target, with Rs 10,668 crore already disbursed. States have been urged to release their share promptly and submit proposals for further installments.
Highlighting the efficiency of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mechanism, Chouhan noted that over 10 lakh beneficiaries received their first installment in one click, authorized by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an event in Bhubaneswar. On September 17, 2024, PM Modi also approved 15 lakh houses and released Rs 3,180 crore for over 10 lakh beneficiaries. Additionally, more than 26 lakh houses have been handed over to their owners.
The minister also emphasized the ongoing development under PMGSY-III (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana), with 6,614 km of roads approved between June 9 and December 2, 2024. Another 2,337 km of roads were sanctioned under the PM-Janman scheme, and over 68,000 Amrit Sarovars (water reservoirs) have been constructed or revived.
Highlighting the empowerment of rural women, Chouhan mentioned that over 1.15 crore women have become ‘Lakhpati Didis’ through self-help groups under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM).
The government is also set to revamp the Jan MGNREGA App to enhance transparency and gather citizen feedback on the scheme’s implementation. Provisions for socially disadvantaged groups—50% SC/ST, 15% minorities, and 33% women—remain integral, with special attention to manual scavengers, persons with disabilities, and female-headed households.
Chouhan reaffirmed the government’s commitment to addressing any shortcomings in MGNREGA and PMAY-G implementation and promised that additional funds would be allocated if the demand exceeds initial estimates.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/centre-allocates-rs-1-03-lakh-crore-to-rural-schemes-for-the-poor-in-current-fiscal-shivraj-chouhan/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: Crunch time in France as lawmakers look set to oust Barnier’s government
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:22:44 +0000
Content: French lawmakers are all but certain to oust the governmentwith a no-confidence motionon Wednesday, plunging the euro zone’s second-biggest economic power deeper into political turmoil.
Barring a last-minute surprise, Prime Minister Michel Barnier’s government will be France’s first to be forced out by a no-confidence vote in more than 60 years, at a time when the country is struggling to tame a massive budget deficit.
That would leave a hole at the heart of the European Union at a time when Germany is also weakened and in election mode, weeks before U.S. President-elect Donald Trump re-enters the White House.
In a TV interview on Tuesday, Barnier said he still believed his government could survive the vote, scheduled for the evening after a debate starting at 4 p.m. (1500 GMT).
But far-right National Rally (RN) chief Jordan Bardella confirmed on Wednesday that his party would vote to topple Barnier alongside left-wing parties.
He said Barnier’s optimism showed that the government was “completely out of touch with what is happening in the country”.
“This government is dangerous for my country,” he told France Inter radio. “We will vote for the no-confidence motion.”
Barnier’s interior minister,Bruno Retailleau, was downbeat.
“Nothing’s over until the vote but we can see we’re headed towards censure (of the government),” he told CNews.
President Emmanuel Macron, who won a second mandate in 2022, precipitated the crisis by calling a snap parliamentary election in June.
His term as president runs until mid-2027 and he cannot be forced out by parliament, but the RN and the hard left have already been saying he should resign as he faces his biggest crisis since the Yellow Vest popular unrest of 2018-2019.
Since Macron called the election, France’s CAC 40 .FCHI has dropped nearly 10% and is the heaviest loser among top EU economies. The single currency is down nearly 4%.
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE PUTS BID TO CUT BUDGET DEFICIT AT RISK
Political uncertainty is already hitting France’s services sector, a monthly survey showed.
“The positive signals … that were seen over the summer, partly due to the Olympics, are now a thing of the past,” Hamburg Commercial Bank economist Tariq Kamal Chaudhry said after seeing the HCOB purchasing managers’ index for France’s service sector.
Barnier’s draft budget had sought to cut the fiscal deficit, which is projected to exceed 6% of national output this year, with 60 billion euros ($63 billion) in tax hikes and spending cuts. It sought to drag the deficit down to 5% next year.
The caretaker government could propose emergency legislation to roll over spending limits and tax provisions from this year. But that would mean Barnier’s savings measures falling by the wayside.
Barnier says the consequences of voting him out will be catastrophic for state finances, but RN lawmaker Laure Lavalette told TF1 TV: “There is no reason for this to lead to major chaos. Don’t play with fears … it’s not all going to crumble.”
Bond investors are likely to spare France the dire financial “storm” Barnier has warned of, but the fallout from the political crisis will hurt businesses, consumers and taxpayers, economists and experts say.
“This is a slow-burning crisis which will lead to an ongoing widening of spreads and an ongoing deterioration of sovereign creditworthiness,” said Union Investment’s head of fixed income and FX, Christian Kopf, who is underweight on French debt.
“But for the time being, I do not see the ingredients for this to totally get out of hand and morph into an outright sovereign debt crisis.”
If the no-confidence vote passes, Macron may well ask Barnier to stay on in a caretaker role as it could take until next year to find a new prime minister.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/crunch-time-in-france-as-lawmakers-look-set-to-oust-barniers-government/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: India expands world’s largest grain storage plan in cooperative sector
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:37:27 +0000
Content: Under the pilot phase of the ambitious World’s Largest Grain Storage Plan in the cooperative sector, godowns have been successfully constructed at Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) in 11 states across India. These include Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Telangana, Tripura, and Rajasthan.
The initiative, supported by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), and NABARD Consultancy Services (NABCONS), has achieved a total storage capacity of 9,750 metric tonnes.
Of the 11 constructed storage units, three—located in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Telangana—are retained for PACS’ own use. Another three facilities, in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat, have been hired out to state or central agencies, demonstrating the project’s versatility in addressing both local and institutional grain storage needs.
Encouraged by the success of the pilot phase, the government has extended the project. As of November 21, 2024, over 500 additional PACS across the country have been identified for the construction of godowns, further advancing the plan to enhance storage infrastructure at the grassroots level.
The initiative integrates subsidies and interest subventions through various government schemes, such as the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) and the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Scheme (AMI). Under the AIF scheme, PACS receive a 3% interest subvention on loans up to ₹2 crore, with a repayment tenure of seven years (2+5 years). The AMI scheme provides a 33.33% subsidy to PACS for constructing storage units, while also reducing the margin money requirement from 20% to 10%.
Additionally, PACS receive subsidies for ancillary infrastructure such as boundary walls and drainage systems, capped at one-third of the total permissible subsidy for the godown or the actual cost—whichever is lower.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/india-expands-worlds-largest-grain-storage-plan-in-cooperative-sector/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: Nepal, China sign deal on Belt and Road plan, paving way for progress on projects
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:16:00 +0000
Content: Nepal has signed a framework agreement with China on the Belt and Road initiative, after an initial pact was signed seven years ago but no progress made since, paving the way for cooperation on projects, its foreign ministry said on Wednesday.
Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has been in Beijing since Monday on a four-day visit, his first to a foreign country since his July swearing-in, breaking tradition by not making New Delhi, with which Kathmandu has centuries-old ties, his first foreign port of call.
Nepal and China signed an initial deal in 2017 for President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative, which aims to build China’s infrastructure and trade links with the world.
However, no projects have been planned or begun in the past seven years, as a framework for cooperationhad not been set and as Nepal struggled to get consensus from its political parties.
The signing of the deal on Wednesday implies that both countries will now move ahead with details of projects, which may include road upgrades and transportation corridors, and how to finance them.
Debt concerns have, meanwhile, spurred debate within Oli’s coalition government, with the Nepali Congress party, a key supporter of Oli, opposing any project funded by loans.
Nepal and China “signed the Framework for Belt and Road Cooperation today,” Nepal’s foreign ministry said in a post on X, without giving details.
China has loaned Nepal $216 million to build an international airport in Pokhara, the second-largest city about 125 km (80 miles) west of Kathmandu, which began operating last year.
But the Chinese-built airport, claimed by Beijing as a symbol of Belt and Road success, has grappled with problems such as a lack of international flights, due to India’s refusal to let planes use its airspace.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepal-china-sign-deal-on-belt-and-road-plan-paving-way-for-progress-on-projects/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: ISRO’s PROBA-3 satellite launch rescheduled to December 5
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:08:23 +0000
Content: The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has rescheduled the launch of the PSLV-C59/PROBA-3 satellite mission to December 5 at 4:12 PM, following the detection of an anomaly on Wednesday. The launch was originally scheduled for today (Wednesday) at 4:08 PM from the first launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh.
“Due to an anomaly detected in PROBA-3 spacecraft, PSLV-C59/PROBA-3 launch has been rescheduled to tomorrow at 16:12 hours,” ISRO announced in a post on X.
The PSLV-C59 mission, a collaborative initiative between ISRO and NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), will deploy a payload of approximately 550 kg into a highly elliptical orbit. Proba-3, ESA’s first precision formation-flying mission, will be the centerpiece of this launch, representing a major milestone in global space technology.
Proba-3 comprises two satellites designed to operate in tandem, maintaining a fixed configuration in space as though they form a single rigid structure. This technology demonstration mission aims to validate advanced formation flying and rendezvous technologies. The two satellites will form a 150-meter-long solar coronagraph, enabling unprecedented studies of the Sun’s faint corona near the solar rim.
ESA highlighted that this mission is not only a groundbreaking science experiment but also a demonstration of precise positioning technologies using innovative metrology sensors and control algorithms. Proba-3 will serve as an orbital laboratory, advancing capabilities in acquisition, rendezvous, proximity operations, and formation flying, which will revolutionize future space missions.
The mission includes the Coronagraph Spacecraft (CSC) and the Occulter Spacecraft (OSC), which will be launched in a “stacked configuration.” Once in orbit, these satellites will align with the Sun to block its brilliant disk, allowing continuous observation of the faint solar corona, the Sun’s outer atmosphere.
ISRO shared updates on the launch via its social media platform, adding, “Countdown is progressing smoothly as PSLV-C59, an initiative led by NSIL and supported by ISRO’s expertise, prepares to launch ESA’s Proba-3 satellites into a highly elliptical orbit.”
The PSLV-C59 launch will involve four stages, with multiple ignitions and separation stages until the Proba-3 satellites are released into orbit. The total lift-off mass of the launch vehicle is approximately 320 tonnes, reflecting the PSLV’s robust capabilities. Notably, the PSLV is India’s first launch vehicle equipped with liquid stages, achieving its first successful launch in October 1994.
The Proba-3 mission is categorized as an “In-Orbit Demonstration (IOD)” by ESA.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/isros-proba-3-satellite-launch-rescheduled-to-december-5/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: Djokovic to compete in Brisbane International for first time since 2009
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 11:53:20 +0000
Content: The 2025 Brisbane International, scheduled to begin on December 29 at Pat Rafter Arena, announced a star-studded lineup of 61 professional tennis players, headlined by 24-time Grand Slam champion Novak Djokovic.
Djokovic, a 10-time Australian Open champion and the holder of 99 career titles, will play at the Brisbane International for the first time since its inaugural year in 2009. The Serbian great is aiming for his 100th title and is excited to return to Brisbane, where he competed in the tournament’s first edition.
“I’m excited to be kicking off my Australian swing at the Brisbane International and to compete again at Pat Rafter Arena. I’m looking forward to experiencing the incredible support from the Australian fans and making this tournament one to remember,” Djokovic said.
Djokovic will headline the ATP 250 event alongside defending champion Grigor Dimitrov (No. 10), Holger Rune (No. 13), and Frances Tiafoe (No. 18).
The men’s field also features three Australians: Nick Kyrgios (PR 21), Alexei Popyrin (No. 24), and Jordan Thompson (No. 26), along with Sebastian Korda (No. 22), Matteo Berrettini (No. 34), and Gaël Monfils (No. 55).
The WTA 500 event boasts an equally impressive roster, headlined by world No. 1 Aryna Sabalenka. Joining her are three other top-10 players: Jessica Pegula (No. 7), Emma Navarro (No. 8), and Daria Kasatkina (No. 9).
Former Brisbane International champion and two-time Australian Open winner Victoria Azarenka (No. 20) will also make her return, adding prestige to a lineup that includes 11 players ranked in the top 20.
In total, 11 top-20 players, including former Brisbane International champion Victoria Azarenka (No. 20), will feature in the event.
Brisbane International Tournament Director Cam Pearson expressed his excitement about the 2025 lineup. “We are thrilled to have Novak headlining the Brisbane International 2025, along with world No. 1 Aryna Sabalenka. This is by far the strongest field the tournament has seen, with 15 of the top-20 men and women players confirmed,” Pearson said.
Highlighting the importance of Australian representation, Pearson added: “Multiple highly ranked Australians will inspire the next generation of tennis fans, and the event will be huge. I cannot wait for the tournament to get underway and for all the fans to experience the world’s best right here in Brisbane.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/djokovic-to-compete-in-brisbane-international-for-first-time-since-2009/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: Stock market ends higher, outlook remains positive
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 11:52:14 +0000
Content: Indian indices closed higher on Wednesday, with gains in defence stocks and robust growth in the services sector providing support. The Sensex surged by 110.58 points to end at 80,956.33, while the Nifty rose marginally by 2.35 points, settling at 24,461.25. Despite these gains, market breadth was negative, as 19 Nifty companies recorded advances while 31 declined.
In the Nifty index, HDFC Life, HDFC Bank, NTPC, Apollo Hospital, and Bajaj Finserv were among the top gainers. Meanwhile, Bharti Airtel, Cipla, Bajaj Auto, Adani Ports, and Tata Motors led the decliners, reflecting a mixed performance across sectors.
Defence stocks saw significant traction following the Defence Acquisition Council’s (DAC) approval of acquisition proposals worth ₹21,772 crore. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders and Garden Reach Shipbuilders surged nearly 5%, while Bharat Electronics, Hindustan Aeronautics, and Bharat Dynamics posted gains of 2-3%.
VLA Ambala, Co-Founder of Stock Market Today, said that the DAC’s approval strengthened the portfolios of defence companies, sparking strong buying interest. “This highlights the growing prominence of the defence sector in the market,” Ambala said.
India’s services sector continued its expansion in November, driven by strong domestic and international demand. The sector witnessed record hiring and improved business sentiment, despite facing the sharpest price hikes in a decade. This growth bolstered overall market optimism and provided additional support to the indices.
Ambala also analyzed technical trends, pointing out that the Nifty tested the 24,500 level and formed a “Doji candlestick pattern” on the daily chart. This pattern is often seen as a signal for a favorable outlook in the mid-to-long term. Ambala suggested that investors focus on accumulating quality mid-cap and small-cap stocks for potential gains.
(ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/stock-market-ends-higher-outlook-remains-positive/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 02:47:14

Title: Devendra Fadnavis sworn in as Maharashtra Chief Minister
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 13:15:23 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in a grand ceremony held at Azad Maidan, Mumbai. Governor CP Radhakrishnan administered the oath of office to Fadnavis, marking the beginning of his historic new term.
The event was attended by a host of prominent leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Chief Ministers from several states, such as Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Bhupendra Patel (Gujarat), and Pushkar Singh Dhami (Uttarakhand), also witnessed the occasion.
Adding a touch of glamour to the ceremony, cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar and Bollywood stars Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, and Madhuri Dixit were present to celebrate the political milestone.
Fadnavis, born on July 22, 1970, in Nagpur, comes from a middle-class family. He holds degrees in law, business management, and project management, which have contributed to his astute political acumen. His political journey began in 1992 when he was elected as a councillor in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, a position he held for two consecutive terms before advancing to serve as an MLA for five terms.
From 2014 to 2019, Fadnavis served as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, becoming the second-youngest to hold the position after Sharad Pawar. During his tenure, he oversaw major projects, including the Samruddhi Expressway, the Police Digitisation Project, and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Krishi Sanman Scheme, which bolstered the state’s infrastructure and welfare initiatives.
Fadnavis briefly held the Chief Minister’s position during the political turmoil in 2019 when the Shiv Sena broke its alliance with the BJP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government with the Congress and NCP.
In the 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Elections, the BJP-led Mahayuti alliance secured a resounding victory, winning 235 seats. The BJP emerged as the single largest party with 132 seats, while its allies, the Shiv Sena and NCP, secured 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
The MVA alliance suffered a significant defeat, with Congress managing only 16 seats, Shiv Sena (UBT) securing 20, and the Sharad Pawar faction of the NCP winning just 10 seats.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-sworn-in-as-maharashtra-chief-minister/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: EAM Jaishankar reiterates India’s support for two-state solution, explains abstention from UN resolutions on Gaza conflict
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 12:41:22 +0000
Content: External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reiterated India’s firm support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict, emphasizing the importance of addressing terrorism and hostage-taking in global discourse.
Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Jaishankar defended India’s decision to abstain from certain United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) resolutions on the Gaza conflict, stating that these resolutions failed to capture the full scope of the situation.
Jaishankar clarified India’s stance in response to TMC MP Saket Gokhale’s inquiry, asserting, “We support the two-state solution and have been public and unambiguous about it. There should be no confusion regarding our position.”
When asked about the International Criminal Court’s (ICC) arrest warrants against Israeli and Hamas leaders, Jaishankar noted that India is not an ICC member. “India decided not to join the ICC after thorough deliberation. Therefore, its decisions are not binding on us, and we have not taken a formal position on this matter,” he said.
The minister also highlighted India’s longstanding humanitarian support for Palestine. He detailed contributions to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), adding a significant increase in annual aid from $1 million to $5 million under the current government. Additionally, he mentioned the provision of over 165 metric tons of medicines and other supplies to Palestine and Lebanon in recent years.
Regarding Israel’s ban on UNRWA, Jaishankar confirmed India’s unwavering commitment to its contributions, saying, “We continue to stand by our decision and have released the latest tranche of support to UNRWA.”
Explaining India’s abstention from some UNGA resolutions, Jaishankar emphasized that these lacked balance and failed to address critical aspects such as the October 7 Hamas attack, terrorism, and hostage-taking. “As a country that has suffered from terrorism, India cannot support resolutions that underplay such acts. Resolutions must be well-drafted, balanced, and reflect the entirety of the situation,” he said.
Jaishankar reiterated India’s condemnation of terrorism and hostage-taking while advocating for adherence to humanitarian law and minimizing civilian casualties. He stressed India’s call for a ceasefire and an end to violence in the region, adding that India’s position remains consistent and principled.
The Gaza conflict escalated after Hamas launched an attack on Israel on October 7, 2023, prompting a large-scale Israeli counter-offensive. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first global leaders to condemn Hamas’ actions, while also urging for a ceasefire and the unconditional release of hostages. India continues to advocate for the two-state solution as the pathway to resolving the long-standing conflict.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/eam-jaishankar-reiterates-indias-support-for-two-state-solution-explains-abstention-from-un-resolutions-on-gaza-conflict/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: The fight for joy Bangla: How India helped Bangladesh achieve independence
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 10:22:10 +0000
Content: Pakistan, created in 1947 after the partition of British India, was a nation seemingly destined for further division. Many analysts considered it a geographical absurdity, a loose amalgamation of two separate territories 1,000 miles apart. Beyond sharing a Muslim majority, West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now known as Bangladesh) had little in common.
One of the most significant differences between the two regions was language, which became a major source of identity problems and fuelled Bengali nationalism among the people of East Pakistan.
While people in West Pakistan spoke Urdu, the main language in East Pakistan was Bengali. In December 1947, students at the University of Dhaka protested, demanding that Bengali be recognized as one of Pakistan’s official languages. This marked the beginning of the language war between East and West Pakistan. Pakistan’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, responded by visiting Dhaka in March 1948 to deliver a stern message: Urdu would be the only official language of Pakistan. Moreover, leaders who spoke Bengali in the East Pakistan assembly were warned they could be tried for treason. Ultimately, West Pakistan imposed Urdu as the sole national language across both regions.
In response, the Bhasha Andolan (Language Movement) began in East Pakistan in 1952. This movement witnessed the deaths of many activists, politicians, and civilians due to atrocities committed by the West Pakistan-led regional regime. A key outcome of the language movement was the establishment of the Awami League in 1955, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
In 1956, Pakistan was established as an Islamic Republic with a new constitution. The country that year accepted Urdu and Bengali as official languages. In 1958, a military coup led by General Muhammad Ayub Khan abrogated that constitution.
The other big difference between the West and East Pakistan was the culture being followed by its people. Speaking a different language than West Pakistan, the people of East Pakistan followed a single ethnicity, Bengali, with a rich past. On the other hand, West Pakistan was a societal mix of people from different origins, including Punjab, Sindh, Baluchistan, and Pashtun people from its border areas, the North-West Frontier Province. Culturally, the people in East Pakistan had a stronger sense of belongingness than those in West Pakistan.
Despite these big differences, there could have been a united Pakistan based on religious similarity if both territories were treated equally by the country’s political leadership. However, the united Pakistan failed miserably here. The two territories, separated by a thousand miles, with different languages spoken and cultures followed, were ruled by a unilateral political leadership from West Pakistan.
The top political lineage under Jinnah that united Pakistan followed was largely from West Pakistan only. Also, its military wing leadership, the army, the air force, and the navy were based in West Pakistan only.
These disparities manifested in the repercussions felt by East Pakistan from 1947 until its liberation in 1971 as Bangladesh. The West Pakistani leadership treated East Pakistan as a colony, extracting benefits while denying it the rights and resources it deserved.
EAST PAKISTAN WAS MORE PROSPEROUS THAN WEST PAKISTAN
According to the 1951 Pakistan Census, East Pakistan had a population of 42 million, exceeding West Pakistan’s 33.7 million. Geographically, East Pakistan was a riverine territory with ample rainfall, making it more prosperous. Its fertile and productive lands stood in contrast to West Pakistan, which, aside from Punjab, was largely dry with barren areas.
Moreover, a study titled “The Struggle in Bangladesh,” published in the Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars, indicates that in the initial years, East Pakistan’s GDP surpassed that of West Pakistan. Educationally, East Pakistan also had an advantage.

Initially, in 1949–50, East Pakistan’s GDP was 13,130 million rupees, more than West Pakistan’s 11,830 million rupees. In education, East Pakistan had 29,633 primary schools in 1947, compared to just 8,413 in West Pakistan. Similarly, East Pakistan had 50 colleges, while West Pakistan had 40.
WEST PAKISTAN’S COLONY
Despite East Pakistan’s higher GDP, better educational levels, and stable cultural heritage, data analysis reveals that West Pakistan monopolized industrialization and other benefits by installing a lame-duck government in East Pakistan.
East Pakistan was the primary source of jute, united Pakistan’s key export commodity. Logistically, industrial units for cotton textiles should have been developed there, but the country’s leadership chose to establish them in West Pakistan. Economic institutions and infrastructure developments, such as seaports, railways, and roads essential for promoting industrial growth further, were largely concentrated in West Pakistan only.
Conversely, East Pakistan experienced limited development, primarily aimed at supporting industries located in West Pakistan, according to the study. Furthermore, most industries in East Pakistan were developed by industrialists based in West Pakistan. Just 11% of industries were owned by Bengalis, making East Pakistan a labour hub for West Pakistan.
The deteriorating situation of East Pakistan over the next two decades reflects this exploitation. While East Pakistan was once more prosperous than West Pakistan, by 1970, the situation had reversed entirely.

Data from the study reveal that by 1968–69, West Pakistan’s GDP exceeded East Pakistan’s by 34%, and its per capita income was 62% higher. In united Pakistan’s first and second Five-Year Plans, 68% of the allocations went to West Pakistan, slightly reduced to 64% in the third plan. Pakistan’s economy largely depended on foreign assistance, of which 70% to 80% benefited West Pakistan. Although East Pakistan contributed up to 70% of Pakistan’s export earnings, 75% of imports were directed to West Pakistan.
CALL FOR SELF-DETERMINATION
These factors, language suppression, cultural differences, economic exploitation, mass arrests, killings, disappearances, and colonial treatment, left East Pakistanis facing an uncertain future after two decades of hostility.
In the 1954 regional elections, a coalition known as the United Front defeated the Muslim League, which had been based in West Pakistan and had ruled East Pakistan until then. In February 1966, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of the Awami League presented his Six-Point Charter to the then-military ruler of Pakistan, Field Marshal Ayub Khan, demanding autonomy and greater control over East Pakistan’s economic affairs. These Six Points became central to Bengali nationalism and eventually transformed into a liberation movement following the 1970 general elections in Pakistan.
1970 PAKISTAN ELECTION: A TURNING POINT – EAST PAKISTAN’S CALL FOR INDEPENDENCE
Pakistan conducted its first general election on December 7, 1970, which is regarded as the most transparent election in the country’s history, according to Geo News, a major Pakistani news platform. The main contenders were Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), based in West Pakistan, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s Awami League, based in East Pakistan. The Awami League achieved a landslide victory, winning 170 seats, while the PPP secured only 81.
Despite the Awami League’s clear mandate to govern all of Pakistan, the country’s military ruler, General Yahya Khan, and the PPP’s Bhutto opposed this outcome. They dismissed the election results and imposed martial law, denying the Awami League its rightful leadership.
This action led to widespread protests and riots in East Pakistan. In response, Sheikh Mujib initiated a civil disobedience movement. On March 7, 1971, the Awami League mobilized 50,000 Bengalis to start a peaceful protest in Dhaka. However, on March 25, 1971, Sheikh Mujib was arrested and airlifted to West Pakistan with the launch of Operation Searchlight.
OPERATION SEARCHLIGHT
Following Sheikh Mujib’s declaration of independence for East Pakistan, West Pakistan launched a brutal crackdown on Bengalis. Operation Searchlight, initiated by West Pakistan on March 25, 1971, stands as one of the most horrific state-run military operations in history. According to various investigative estimates, including the Russian newspaper Pravda, approximately 3 million East Pakistanis were murdered by Pakistani troops and supporting militias.
In the 1970 general election, West Pakistan-based parties failed to win any seats in East Pakistan, underscoring the widespread support for the Awami League and its pro-independence stance among civilians, police, and security forces in East Pakistan. Consequently, West Pakistan’s troops and supporting radical militias targeted these Bengali-speaking populations across the region.
Deploying hundreds of thousands of troops across Dhaka and throughout East Bengal, supported by air and naval power, the main targets were Awami League politicians, military personnel, East Bengal police, and Bengali-speaking civilians.
An analytical report published in the Dhaka Tribune indicates that one of Operation Searchlight’s objectives was to disarm and arrest Bengali soldiers and policemen serving in East Pakistan. Another aim was to attack Hindu-majority areas of Dhaka. On the night of March 25, 1971, casualty figures in Dhaka alone reached approximately 35,000.
During the nine months of the operation, hundreds of thousands of Bengali women were subjected to rape. According to a report in the Smithsonian, around 400,000 women underwent late-term abortions, although the actual number is believed to be much higher.
REFUGEES IN INDIA
The brutal crackdown compelled millions of Bangladeshis to flee to India. By May 1971, India was hosting 1.5 million refugees, a number that swelled to around 10 million by December 1971, making it the largest refugee crisis in the modern world. Internally, the military operation displaced approximately 30 million people within Bangladesh.
This massive influx placed a significant burden on India. Nevertheless, the country stepped forward to assist, despite lacking domestic laws to manage refugees and not being a signatory to the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention or its 1967 protocol. India established 825 refugee camps across seven states, with 19 central camps capable of accommodating up to 50,000 refugees each.
ECONOMIC BURDEN
The economic burden was significant. India had to reassess its Fourth Five-Year Plan. The 1971–72 Budget stated, “The country’s resources, physical as well as fiscal, were greatly strained by developments across the border, the influx of nearly ten million refugees and the outbreak of hostilities in December 1971.” 1 Despite these challenges, the economy responded effectively, as noted in the budget document.  
A World Bank assessment, based on 9 million refugees, estimated the direct cost to India at approximately US$700 million from April 1, 1971, to March 31, 1972, which equates to around US$5.5 billion today. India managed this expenditure largely through internal resources. According to a CIA document from March 1972, released in 2010, the Indian government spent about 4% of its planned central government expenditure for FY1971 on refugee care.
INDIA’S STAND
India supported Sheikh Mujib’s call for independence but initially refrained from participating in the war. Instead, it provided moral and material support to the independence movement. On April 17, 1971, a provisional government of Bangladesh was formed and relocated to Calcutta as the “Bangladesh Government in Exile.”
Meanwhile, the freedom fighters of East Pakistan formed the Mukti Bahini, an armed resistance movement against the West Pakistani military and supporting militias. Comprising members of the Bengali military, paramilitary forces, police, and civilians, these fighters engaged in guerrilla warfare.
India’s support bolstered their efforts. The geographical separation of 1,000 miles of Indian territory between West and East Pakistan meant that Pakistan could not easily reinforce its military presence in East Pakistan with additional air and naval power.
West Pakistan had previously exhibited hostility towards India, notably in the conflicts of 1947 and the 1965 war, which it lost. Its actions in East Pakistan heightened diplomatic tensions and prompted a military buildup in India.
The tipping point occurred on December 3, 1971, when Pakistan launched pre-emptive air strikes on Indian airfields. This act of aggression compelled India to formally enter the war, engaging its Army, Navy, and Air Force in a coordinated response to both the humanitarian crisis and threats to its national sovereignty. Before this, India had adopted a restrained approach, engaging in diplomatic efforts and appealing to West Pakistani leaders to create safe corridors for refugees to return. These appeals were ignored.
THE QUICK END
India’s entry into the 1971 war was driven by the humanitarian crisis and direct threats to its national security. By launching joint military operations with the Mukti Bahini, effective coordination and intelligence sharing were achieved, significantly disrupting Pakistani military efforts. Through a series of strategic offensives, the joint forces rapidly overran West Pakistan’s military presence throughout Dhaka and East Pakistan.
On December 16, 1971, Lieutenant General A.A.K. Niazi of Pakistan unconditionally surrendered to Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora of India, along with 93,000 troops, marking one of the largest surrenders since World War II. The war officially ended with India’s unilateral ceasefire on December 17.
WHY INDIA’S ENGAGEMENT WAS NECESSARY FOR A JOY BANGLA MOVEMENT
The success of the “Joy Bangla” movement on December 16, 1971, could only be possible with India’s commitment to the cause. With the onset of Operation Searchlight, India opened its borders to refugees, providing massive relief operations while simultaneously engaging in diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. Military intervention by India was the last resort.
The military intervention ultimately helped realize the goals of the “Joy Bangla” movement.
Twenty-three years of suppression, from 1947 to 1970, with West Pakistan ruling East Pakistan through military involvement, left the eastern territory with a strong desire for independence, an aspiration difficult to achieve in an economy controlled by West Pakistani industrialists and a polity dominated by a West Pakistan-based military ruler allied with exploitative politicians.
The increasing number of refugees in India proved the fact that there was no internal security structure and local and regional administration available for them to take over the West Pakistan-led apparatus.
Over ten million refugees fled to India in ten months, while thirty million were internally displaced. The refugee headcount included Bengali military wing officials, soldiers, and police personnel. According to the Bangladesh High Commission in London, thousands of families of officials, soldiers, and activists from East Pakistan were interned in West Pakistan. Killings and rapes became daily events of horror to be observed. India’s daily refugee count surged from 17,000 to 60,000, with numbers continuing to rise.
The freedom fighters of East Pakistan had the courage and will to fight for independence, but they lacked the strength of a coordinated war strategy and the full complement of military resources—army, air force, navy, arms, and ammunition—to defeat West Pakistan’s full-fledged military. They had to fight a country’s army that had exposure to past war experiences, something they didn’t have, as East Pakistan was not the war theatre of the 1965 India-Pakistan war. India’s decision to join the war after Pakistan’s attack on Indian territory proved to be the turning point, helping Bangladesh achieve a goal that once seemed unachievable.
Had the Mukti Bahini not received external support, Operation Searchlight could have seriously affected the East Pakistan freedom movement and its hopes to break the colonial shackles of West Pakistan.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/the-fight-for-joy-bangla-how-india-helped-bangladesh-achieve-independence/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: Devendra Fadnavis set to be sworn in today as Maharashtra CM, Eknath Shinde, Ajit Pawar Deputy CMs
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 04:45:20 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis will take oath as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde along with NCP’s Ajit Pawar will take the oath as Deputy Chief Ministers in the new cabinet, sources said.
The oath-taking ceremony will take place at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan and will see the participation of several NDA Chief Ministers and leaders. Ending the long-drawn suspense over who would get the top job, Fadnavis, Shinde, and Pawar met Governor CP Radhakrishnan to stake their claim to form the MahaYuti government.
After meeting the Governor, Fadnavis said, “The swearing-in ceremony of the new government will be held tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I met Eknath Shinde and requested him to join us in this government, as it is the wish of MahaYuti workers…We will fulfill the promises made to the people of Maharashtra.”
It will be Fadnavis’ third term in the top post after being unanimously elected as the Leader of the Maharashtra BJP Legislative Party on Wednesday. The decision came after days of speculation and political manoeuvring as Eknath Shinde wanted to become the Chief Minister of Maharashtra. However, the BJP, refused to budge and later, Shinde said he would back PM Modi’s pick.
Meanwhile, Eknath Shinde on Wednesday expressed his satisfaction with the two-and a-half years of the Mahayuti government in Maharashtra, ahead of the swearing-in of Fadnavis as Chief Minister.
“I am very happy with the completion of two-and-a-half years. The work done by our government–the MahaYuti government–by the three of us and our team in the last 2.5 years is remarkable. It will be written in golden letters in history. We are proud to have taken such significant decisions,” said Shinde.
Shinde was accompanied by Fadnavis and NCP chief Ajit Pawar at a press conference. Addressing the media, Pawar emphasised their commitment to effective governance. “We will leave no stone unturned in running the government. Party activities will be managed by BJP chief Chandrashekhar Bawankule and NCP’s Sunil Tatkare,” he said.
There was also some light-hearted banter during the press conference. Asked whether he and Ajit Pawar would take oath on December 5 as Fadnavis’ deputies, Shinde said, “Wait till evening…” Pawar, in response to Shinde’s reply, said, “Sham tak unka samaj aayega (We will know about Shinde by evening), I will take it (oath), I will not wait.”
Shinde then said, “Dada (Ajit Pawar) has experience of taking (oath) both in the morning and evening.” This elicted laughter from all those present at the press conference. In the year 2019, Pawar had taken oath as the Deputy Chief Minister with Fadnavis as the Chief Minister in an early morning ceremony at Raj Bhavan.
The 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Election witnessed a resounding victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Mahayuti alliance, which secured a landslide win with 235 seats out of 288. The results marked a significant milestone for the BJP, which emerged as the single-largest party with 132 seats. The Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party also recorded notable gains, securing 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
While, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) suffered a major setback with Congress winning just 16 seats. Its alliance partner, Shiv Sena (UBT), won 20 seats, while the NCP (Sharad Pawar faction) secured only 10 seats.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-set-to-be-sworn-in-today-as-maharashtra-cm-eknath-shinde-ajit-pawar-deputy-cms/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: RBI raises UPI lite wallet limit to Rs 5,000
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 17:08:49 +0000
Content: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has increased the wallet limit for UPI Lite from ₹2,000 to ₹5,000. The new guidelines, announced on Wednesday, also raised the upper transaction limit under the offline framework from ₹500 to ₹1,000 per transaction.
According to the RBI’s circular, the revised limits are effective immediately, enabling users to make higher-value transactions conveniently while maintaining the simplicity and security of UPI Lite. “The enhanced limits for UPI Lite shall be ₹1,000 per transaction, with ₹5,000 being the total limit at any point in time,” the circular said.
Previously, the offline framework permitted a maximum of ₹500 per transaction and a total limit of ₹2,000 for payment instruments. The updated framework is expected to streamline digital payments for day-to-day purchases and provide a more robust and inclusive digital payment experience for consumers.
The RBI clarified that the changes have been implemented under the authority of Section 18, read with Section 10(2) of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. This initiative aligns with the central bank’s ongoing efforts to promote digital transactions while ensuring ease of use and enhanced security for consumers.
Earlier, in October 2024, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had announced an increase in transaction limits for UPI services during the monetary policy briefing, emphasizing the growing importance of digital payment platforms in India’s economy.
The updated limits come at a time when Unified Payments Interface (UPI) continues to set milestones in the digital payment space. In October 2024, UPI achieved a record-breaking 16.58 billion financial transactions in a single month.
Since its launch in 2016 by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), UPI has revolutionized the country’s payment system, integrating multiple bank accounts into a single mobile application for seamless fund transfers, peer-to-peer transactions, and merchant payments.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-raises-upi-lite-wallet-limit-to-rs-5000/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: “Trying to deepen our relationship with India,” says Bangladesh Press Secy ahead of FS Misri’s visit
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 15:33:02 +0000
Content: Bangladesh is set to host Indian Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri amid heightened tensions between the two nations, with Shafiqul Alam, Press Secretary to the Chief Advisor of Bangladesh’s interim government, Muhammad Yunus, emphasizing the intent to strengthen bilateral ties.
Alam expressed optimism about the upcoming discussions between the foreign secretaries of both nations, stating that the talks would focus on mutual interests and help bolster the relationship. He said, “We were looking forward to the Indian Foreign Secretary’s visit. Both sides are keen to discuss issues of mutual interest, and we hope these meetings will deepen ties between the two neighbors.”
Addressing the state of India-Bangladesh relations, Alam said, “Our relationship with India remains steady, and we are working to improve it further. Both nations are trying to deepen their ties, and we are hopeful that relations will grow stronger in the coming days and months.”
The Press Secretary’s comments come a day after Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, was summoned by Bangladesh’s Foreign Ministry following a protest attack on the premises of the Bangladesh acting High Commission in Agartala. During the meeting, Verma engaged with Riaz Hamidullah, acting Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh’s interim government, to discuss the incident.
Following the meeting, Verma reiterated India’s commitment to fostering a robust and cooperative relationship with Bangladesh. Speaking to reporters, he said, “India and Bangladesh share a wide-ranging and multifaceted relationship that cannot be defined by a single issue. We aim to build a stable, constructive, and mutually beneficial partnership.”
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/trying-to-deepen-our-relationship-with-india-says-bangladesh-press-secy-ahead-of-fs-misris-visit/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: Nepal’s Industry Minister Bhandari meets India’s Piyush Goyal to attract Indian investment
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:48:18 +0000
Content: Nepal’s Minister for Industry, Commerce, and Supplies, Damodar Bhandari, met India’s Minister for Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, in New Delhi on Monday to discuss matters of bilateral trade and investment.
During the meeting, Minister Bhandari urged Goyal to address the challenges posed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) requirements imposed on Nepali exports such as cement, plywood, and shoes.
The two ministers also held positive discussions on amending the Treaty of Transit to facilitate smoother trade operations. It was agreed to organize a Commerce Secretary-level meeting in Nepal soon to further advance cooperation in trade and transit.
Highlighting Nepal’s immense investment potential, Bhandari emphasized the country’s investor-friendly environment and urged Goyal to encourage Indian investors to explore opportunities in Nepal.
Minister Bhandari also met India’s Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri, to review progress on energy cooperation since their last meeting in August 2024. Discussions focused on ongoing and new infrastructure projects, including the signing of a B2B agreement between Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC).
The talks underscored strengthening energy ties between the two nations, with a focus on ensuring uninterrupted supply of petroleum, oil, and lubricants to Nepal. Both parties agreed to expedite the construction of the Siliguri-Jhapa and Amlekhgunj-Chitwan pipelines, along with associated terminals, to enhance cross-border energy connectivity.
Minister Puri invited Nepal to join the Global Biofuels Alliance to unlock its biofuels potential, signaling further avenues for cooperation in sustainable energy.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepals-industry-minister-bhandari-meets-indias-piyush-goyal-to-attract-indian-investment/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: Centre allocates Rs 1.03 lakh crore to rural schemes for the poor in current fiscal: Shivraj Chouhan
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:35:51 +0000
Content: Union Rural Development Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Wednesday that the Ministry has spent Rs 1.03 lakh crore on rural development and social welfare schemes so far in the current financial year, out of the total budget allocation of Rs 1.84 lakh crore.
“We are working tirelessly to fulfill the Prime Minister’s vision by connecting rural communities with employment opportunities and essential facilities,” Chouhan stated at a press conference.
The minister highlighted that under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G), a target of constructing 2.95 crore houses by March 2024 had been set. Of these, almost all have been sanctioned, and 2.67 crore houses have already been completed. Recognizing the program’s success and the ongoing demand for rural housing, the scheme has been extended to construct an additional 2 crore houses over the next five years at an estimated cost of over Rs 3.06 lakh crore.
To ensure no eligible family is excluded, the exclusion criteria have been relaxed. Conditions such as owning a mechanized fishing boat, refrigerator, or landline phone have been removed, while the income threshold for exclusion has been increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month.
Chouhan also explained that financial assistance for constructing these houses is being provided through various government schemes. Under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a 3% interest subvention is offered for projects up to Rs 2 crore, with a repayment period of seven years. Additionally, under the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI) Scheme, a 33.33% subsidy is provided for storage infrastructure, and margin money requirements for PACS (Primary Agricultural Credit Societies) have been reduced from 20% to 10%.
Each house under PMAY-G includes basic amenities such as toilets, cooking gas connections, and electricity through integration with schemes like the Swachh Bharat Mission, Ujjwala Yojana, and Saubhagya Yojana. Beneficiaries also receive 90–95 days of wage support under MGNREGA for constructing their homes. Furthermore, under the Pradhan Mantri Surya Ghar Scheme, solar rooftop connections are provided to reduce electricity costs.
So far, 38 lakh houses have been allocated to 18 states under the new target, with Rs 10,668 crore already disbursed. States have been urged to release their share promptly and submit proposals for further installments.
Highlighting the efficiency of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mechanism, Chouhan noted that over 10 lakh beneficiaries received their first installment in one click, authorized by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an event in Bhubaneswar. On September 17, 2024, PM Modi also approved 15 lakh houses and released Rs 3,180 crore for over 10 lakh beneficiaries. Additionally, more than 26 lakh houses have been handed over to their owners.
The minister also emphasized the ongoing development under PMGSY-III (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana), with 6,614 km of roads approved between June 9 and December 2, 2024. Another 2,337 km of roads were sanctioned under the PM-Janman scheme, and over 68,000 Amrit Sarovars (water reservoirs) have been constructed or revived.
Highlighting the empowerment of rural women, Chouhan mentioned that over 1.15 crore women have become ‘Lakhpati Didis’ through self-help groups under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM).
The government is also set to revamp the Jan MGNREGA App to enhance transparency and gather citizen feedback on the scheme’s implementation. Provisions for socially disadvantaged groups—50% SC/ST, 15% minorities, and 33% women—remain integral, with special attention to manual scavengers, persons with disabilities, and female-headed households.
Chouhan reaffirmed the government’s commitment to addressing any shortcomings in MGNREGA and PMAY-G implementation and promised that additional funds would be allocated if the demand exceeds initial estimates.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/centre-allocates-rs-1-03-lakh-crore-to-rural-schemes-for-the-poor-in-current-fiscal-shivraj-chouhan/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: Crunch time in France as lawmakers look set to oust Barnier’s government
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:22:44 +0000
Content: French lawmakers are all but certain to oust the governmentwith a no-confidence motionon Wednesday, plunging the euro zone’s second-biggest economic power deeper into political turmoil.
Barring a last-minute surprise, Prime Minister Michel Barnier’s government will be France’s first to be forced out by a no-confidence vote in more than 60 years, at a time when the country is struggling to tame a massive budget deficit.
That would leave a hole at the heart of the European Union at a time when Germany is also weakened and in election mode, weeks before U.S. President-elect Donald Trump re-enters the White House.
In a TV interview on Tuesday, Barnier said he still believed his government could survive the vote, scheduled for the evening after a debate starting at 4 p.m. (1500 GMT).
But far-right National Rally (RN) chief Jordan Bardella confirmed on Wednesday that his party would vote to topple Barnier alongside left-wing parties.
He said Barnier’s optimism showed that the government was “completely out of touch with what is happening in the country”.
“This government is dangerous for my country,” he told France Inter radio. “We will vote for the no-confidence motion.”
Barnier’s interior minister,Bruno Retailleau, was downbeat.
“Nothing’s over until the vote but we can see we’re headed towards censure (of the government),” he told CNews.
President Emmanuel Macron, who won a second mandate in 2022, precipitated the crisis by calling a snap parliamentary election in June.
His term as president runs until mid-2027 and he cannot be forced out by parliament, but the RN and the hard left have already been saying he should resign as he faces his biggest crisis since the Yellow Vest popular unrest of 2018-2019.
Since Macron called the election, France’s CAC 40 .FCHI has dropped nearly 10% and is the heaviest loser among top EU economies. The single currency is down nearly 4%.
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE PUTS BID TO CUT BUDGET DEFICIT AT RISK
Political uncertainty is already hitting France’s services sector, a monthly survey showed.
“The positive signals … that were seen over the summer, partly due to the Olympics, are now a thing of the past,” Hamburg Commercial Bank economist Tariq Kamal Chaudhry said after seeing the HCOB purchasing managers’ index for France’s service sector.
Barnier’s draft budget had sought to cut the fiscal deficit, which is projected to exceed 6% of national output this year, with 60 billion euros ($63 billion) in tax hikes and spending cuts. It sought to drag the deficit down to 5% next year.
The caretaker government could propose emergency legislation to roll over spending limits and tax provisions from this year. But that would mean Barnier’s savings measures falling by the wayside.
Barnier says the consequences of voting him out will be catastrophic for state finances, but RN lawmaker Laure Lavalette told TF1 TV: “There is no reason for this to lead to major chaos. Don’t play with fears … it’s not all going to crumble.”
Bond investors are likely to spare France the dire financial “storm” Barnier has warned of, but the fallout from the political crisis will hurt businesses, consumers and taxpayers, economists and experts say.
“This is a slow-burning crisis which will lead to an ongoing widening of spreads and an ongoing deterioration of sovereign creditworthiness,” said Union Investment’s head of fixed income and FX, Christian Kopf, who is underweight on French debt.
“But for the time being, I do not see the ingredients for this to totally get out of hand and morph into an outright sovereign debt crisis.”
If the no-confidence vote passes, Macron may well ask Barnier to stay on in a caretaker role as it could take until next year to find a new prime minister.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/crunch-time-in-france-as-lawmakers-look-set-to-oust-barniers-government/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: India expands world’s largest grain storage plan in cooperative sector
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:37:27 +0000
Content: Under the pilot phase of the ambitious World’s Largest Grain Storage Plan in the cooperative sector, godowns have been successfully constructed at Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) in 11 states across India. These include Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Telangana, Tripura, and Rajasthan.
The initiative, supported by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), and NABARD Consultancy Services (NABCONS), has achieved a total storage capacity of 9,750 metric tonnes.
Of the 11 constructed storage units, three—located in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Telangana—are retained for PACS’ own use. Another three facilities, in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat, have been hired out to state or central agencies, demonstrating the project’s versatility in addressing both local and institutional grain storage needs.
Encouraged by the success of the pilot phase, the government has extended the project. As of November 21, 2024, over 500 additional PACS across the country have been identified for the construction of godowns, further advancing the plan to enhance storage infrastructure at the grassroots level.
The initiative integrates subsidies and interest subventions through various government schemes, such as the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) and the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Scheme (AMI). Under the AIF scheme, PACS receive a 3% interest subvention on loans up to ₹2 crore, with a repayment tenure of seven years (2+5 years). The AMI scheme provides a 33.33% subsidy to PACS for constructing storage units, while also reducing the margin money requirement from 20% to 10%.
Additionally, PACS receive subsidies for ancillary infrastructure such as boundary walls and drainage systems, capped at one-third of the total permissible subsidy for the godown or the actual cost—whichever is lower.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/india-expands-worlds-largest-grain-storage-plan-in-cooperative-sector/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-05 13:42:59

Title: Devendra Fadnavis sworn in as Maharashtra Chief Minister
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 13:15:23 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in a grand ceremony held at Azad Maidan, Mumbai. Governor CP Radhakrishnan administered the oath of office to Fadnavis, marking the beginning of his historic new term.
The event was attended by a host of prominent leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Chief Ministers from several states, such as Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Bhupendra Patel (Gujarat), and Pushkar Singh Dhami (Uttarakhand), also witnessed the occasion.
Adding a touch of glamour to the ceremony, cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar and Bollywood stars Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, and Madhuri Dixit were present to celebrate the political milestone.
Fadnavis, born on July 22, 1970, in Nagpur, comes from a middle-class family. He holds degrees in law, business management, and project management, which have contributed to his astute political acumen. His political journey began in 1992 when he was elected as a councillor in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, a position he held for two consecutive terms before advancing to serve as an MLA for five terms.
From 2014 to 2019, Fadnavis served as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, becoming the second-youngest to hold the position after Sharad Pawar. During his tenure, he oversaw major projects, including the Samruddhi Expressway, the Police Digitisation Project, and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Krishi Sanman Scheme, which bolstered the state’s infrastructure and welfare initiatives.
Fadnavis briefly held the Chief Minister’s position during the political turmoil in 2019 when the Shiv Sena broke its alliance with the BJP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government with the Congress and NCP.
In the 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Elections, the BJP-led Mahayuti alliance secured a resounding victory, winning 235 seats. The BJP emerged as the single largest party with 132 seats, while its allies, the Shiv Sena and NCP, secured 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
The MVA alliance suffered a significant defeat, with Congress managing only 16 seats, Shiv Sena (UBT) securing 20, and the Sharad Pawar faction of the NCP winning just 10 seats.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-sworn-in-as-maharashtra-chief-minister/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: EAM Jaishankar reiterates India’s support for two-state solution, explains abstention from UN resolutions on Gaza conflict
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 12:41:22 +0000
Content: External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reiterated India’s firm support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict, emphasizing the importance of addressing terrorism and hostage-taking in global discourse.
Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Jaishankar defended India’s decision to abstain from certain United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) resolutions on the Gaza conflict, stating that these resolutions failed to capture the full scope of the situation.
Jaishankar clarified India’s stance in response to TMC MP Saket Gokhale’s inquiry, asserting, “We support the two-state solution and have been public and unambiguous about it. There should be no confusion regarding our position.”
When asked about the International Criminal Court’s (ICC) arrest warrants against Israeli and Hamas leaders, Jaishankar noted that India is not an ICC member. “India decided not to join the ICC after thorough deliberation. Therefore, its decisions are not binding on us, and we have not taken a formal position on this matter,” he said.
The minister also highlighted India’s longstanding humanitarian support for Palestine. He detailed contributions to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), adding a significant increase in annual aid from $1 million to $5 million under the current government. Additionally, he mentioned the provision of over 165 metric tons of medicines and other supplies to Palestine and Lebanon in recent years.
Regarding Israel’s ban on UNRWA, Jaishankar confirmed India’s unwavering commitment to its contributions, saying, “We continue to stand by our decision and have released the latest tranche of support to UNRWA.”
Explaining India’s abstention from some UNGA resolutions, Jaishankar emphasized that these lacked balance and failed to address critical aspects such as the October 7 Hamas attack, terrorism, and hostage-taking. “As a country that has suffered from terrorism, India cannot support resolutions that underplay such acts. Resolutions must be well-drafted, balanced, and reflect the entirety of the situation,” he said.
Jaishankar reiterated India’s condemnation of terrorism and hostage-taking while advocating for adherence to humanitarian law and minimizing civilian casualties. He stressed India’s call for a ceasefire and an end to violence in the region, adding that India’s position remains consistent and principled.
The Gaza conflict escalated after Hamas launched an attack on Israel on October 7, 2023, prompting a large-scale Israeli counter-offensive. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first global leaders to condemn Hamas’ actions, while also urging for a ceasefire and the unconditional release of hostages. India continues to advocate for the two-state solution as the pathway to resolving the long-standing conflict.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/eam-jaishankar-reiterates-indias-support-for-two-state-solution-explains-abstention-from-un-resolutions-on-gaza-conflict/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: The fight for joy Bangla: How India helped Bangladesh achieve independence
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 10:22:10 +0000
Content: Pakistan, created in 1947 after the partition of British India, was a nation seemingly destined for further division. Many analysts considered it a geographical absurdity, a loose amalgamation of two separate territories 1,000 miles apart. Beyond sharing a Muslim majority, West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now known as Bangladesh) had little in common.
One of the most significant differences between the two regions was language, which became a major source of identity problems and fuelled Bengali nationalism among the people of East Pakistan.
While people in West Pakistan spoke Urdu, the main language in East Pakistan was Bengali. In December 1947, students at the University of Dhaka protested, demanding that Bengali be recognized as one of Pakistan’s official languages. This marked the beginning of the language war between East and West Pakistan. Pakistan’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, responded by visiting Dhaka in March 1948 to deliver a stern message: Urdu would be the only official language of Pakistan. Moreover, leaders who spoke Bengali in the East Pakistan assembly were warned they could be tried for treason. Ultimately, West Pakistan imposed Urdu as the sole national language across both regions.
In response, the Bhasha Andolan (Language Movement) began in East Pakistan in 1952. This movement witnessed the deaths of many activists, politicians, and civilians due to atrocities committed by the West Pakistan-led regional regime. A key outcome of the language movement was the establishment of the Awami League in 1955, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
In 1956, Pakistan was established as an Islamic Republic with a new constitution. The country that year accepted Urdu and Bengali as official languages. In 1958, a military coup led by General Muhammad Ayub Khan abrogated that constitution.
The other big difference between the West and East Pakistan was the culture being followed by its people. Speaking a different language than West Pakistan, the people of East Pakistan followed a single ethnicity, Bengali, with a rich past. On the other hand, West Pakistan was a societal mix of people from different origins, including Punjab, Sindh, Baluchistan, and Pashtun people from its border areas, the North-West Frontier Province. Culturally, the people in East Pakistan had a stronger sense of belongingness than those in West Pakistan.
Despite these big differences, there could have been a united Pakistan based on religious similarity if both territories were treated equally by the country’s political leadership. However, the united Pakistan failed miserably here. The two territories, separated by a thousand miles, with different languages spoken and cultures followed, were ruled by a unilateral political leadership from West Pakistan.
The top political lineage under Jinnah that united Pakistan followed was largely from West Pakistan only. Also, its military wing leadership, the army, the air force, and the navy were based in West Pakistan only.
These disparities manifested in the repercussions felt by East Pakistan from 1947 until its liberation in 1971 as Bangladesh. The West Pakistani leadership treated East Pakistan as a colony, extracting benefits while denying it the rights and resources it deserved.
EAST PAKISTAN WAS MORE PROSPEROUS THAN WEST PAKISTAN
According to the 1951 Pakistan Census, East Pakistan had a population of 42 million, exceeding West Pakistan’s 33.7 million. Geographically, East Pakistan was a riverine territory with ample rainfall, making it more prosperous. Its fertile and productive lands stood in contrast to West Pakistan, which, aside from Punjab, was largely dry with barren areas.
Moreover, a study titled “The Struggle in Bangladesh,” published in the Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars, indicates that in the initial years, East Pakistan’s GDP surpassed that of West Pakistan. Educationally, East Pakistan also had an advantage.

Initially, in 1949–50, East Pakistan’s GDP was 13,130 million rupees, more than West Pakistan’s 11,830 million rupees. In education, East Pakistan had 29,633 primary schools in 1947, compared to just 8,413 in West Pakistan. Similarly, East Pakistan had 50 colleges, while West Pakistan had 40.
WEST PAKISTAN’S COLONY
Despite East Pakistan’s higher GDP, better educational levels, and stable cultural heritage, data analysis reveals that West Pakistan monopolized industrialization and other benefits by installing a lame-duck government in East Pakistan.
East Pakistan was the primary source of jute, united Pakistan’s key export commodity. Logistically, industrial units for cotton textiles should have been developed there, but the country’s leadership chose to establish them in West Pakistan. Economic institutions and infrastructure developments, such as seaports, railways, and roads essential for promoting industrial growth further, were largely concentrated in West Pakistan only.
Conversely, East Pakistan experienced limited development, primarily aimed at supporting industries located in West Pakistan, according to the study. Furthermore, most industries in East Pakistan were developed by industrialists based in West Pakistan. Just 11% of industries were owned by Bengalis, making East Pakistan a labour hub for West Pakistan.
The deteriorating situation of East Pakistan over the next two decades reflects this exploitation. While East Pakistan was once more prosperous than West Pakistan, by 1970, the situation had reversed entirely.

Data from the study reveal that by 1968–69, West Pakistan’s GDP exceeded East Pakistan’s by 34%, and its per capita income was 62% higher. In united Pakistan’s first and second Five-Year Plans, 68% of the allocations went to West Pakistan, slightly reduced to 64% in the third plan. Pakistan’s economy largely depended on foreign assistance, of which 70% to 80% benefited West Pakistan. Although East Pakistan contributed up to 70% of Pakistan’s export earnings, 75% of imports were directed to West Pakistan.
CALL FOR SELF-DETERMINATION
These factors, language suppression, cultural differences, economic exploitation, mass arrests, killings, disappearances, and colonial treatment, left East Pakistanis facing an uncertain future after two decades of hostility.
In the 1954 regional elections, a coalition known as the United Front defeated the Muslim League, which had been based in West Pakistan and had ruled East Pakistan until then. In February 1966, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of the Awami League presented his Six-Point Charter to the then-military ruler of Pakistan, Field Marshal Ayub Khan, demanding autonomy and greater control over East Pakistan’s economic affairs. These Six Points became central to Bengali nationalism and eventually transformed into a liberation movement following the 1970 general elections in Pakistan.
1970 PAKISTAN ELECTION: A TURNING POINT – EAST PAKISTAN’S CALL FOR INDEPENDENCE
Pakistan conducted its first general election on December 7, 1970, which is regarded as the most transparent election in the country’s history, according to Geo News, a major Pakistani news platform. The main contenders were Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), based in West Pakistan, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s Awami League, based in East Pakistan. The Awami League achieved a landslide victory, winning 170 seats, while the PPP secured only 81.
Despite the Awami League’s clear mandate to govern all of Pakistan, the country’s military ruler, General Yahya Khan, and the PPP’s Bhutto opposed this outcome. They dismissed the election results and imposed martial law, denying the Awami League its rightful leadership.
This action led to widespread protests and riots in East Pakistan. In response, Sheikh Mujib initiated a civil disobedience movement. On March 7, 1971, the Awami League mobilized 50,000 Bengalis to start a peaceful protest in Dhaka. However, on March 25, 1971, Sheikh Mujib was arrested and airlifted to West Pakistan with the launch of Operation Searchlight.
OPERATION SEARCHLIGHT
Following Sheikh Mujib’s declaration of independence for East Pakistan, West Pakistan launched a brutal crackdown on Bengalis. Operation Searchlight, initiated by West Pakistan on March 25, 1971, stands as one of the most horrific state-run military operations in history. According to various investigative estimates, including the Russian newspaper Pravda, approximately 3 million East Pakistanis were murdered by Pakistani troops and supporting militias.
In the 1970 general election, West Pakistan-based parties failed to win any seats in East Pakistan, underscoring the widespread support for the Awami League and its pro-independence stance among civilians, police, and security forces in East Pakistan. Consequently, West Pakistan’s troops and supporting radical militias targeted these Bengali-speaking populations across the region.
Deploying hundreds of thousands of troops across Dhaka and throughout East Bengal, supported by air and naval power, the main targets were Awami League politicians, military personnel, East Bengal police, and Bengali-speaking civilians.
An analytical report published in the Dhaka Tribune indicates that one of Operation Searchlight’s objectives was to disarm and arrest Bengali soldiers and policemen serving in East Pakistan. Another aim was to attack Hindu-majority areas of Dhaka. On the night of March 25, 1971, casualty figures in Dhaka alone reached approximately 35,000.
During the nine months of the operation, hundreds of thousands of Bengali women were subjected to rape. According to a report in the Smithsonian, around 400,000 women underwent late-term abortions, although the actual number is believed to be much higher.
REFUGEES IN INDIA
The brutal crackdown compelled millions of Bangladeshis to flee to India. By May 1971, India was hosting 1.5 million refugees, a number that swelled to around 10 million by December 1971, making it the largest refugee crisis in the modern world. Internally, the military operation displaced approximately 30 million people within Bangladesh.
This massive influx placed a significant burden on India. Nevertheless, the country stepped forward to assist, despite lacking domestic laws to manage refugees and not being a signatory to the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention or its 1967 protocol. India established 825 refugee camps across seven states, with 19 central camps capable of accommodating up to 50,000 refugees each.
ECONOMIC BURDEN
The economic burden was significant. India had to reassess its Fourth Five-Year Plan. The 1971–72 Budget stated, “The country’s resources, physical as well as fiscal, were greatly strained by developments across the border, the influx of nearly ten million refugees and the outbreak of hostilities in December 1971.” 1 Despite these challenges, the economy responded effectively, as noted in the budget document.  
A World Bank assessment, based on 9 million refugees, estimated the direct cost to India at approximately US$700 million from April 1, 1971, to March 31, 1972, which equates to around US$5.5 billion today. India managed this expenditure largely through internal resources. According to a CIA document from March 1972, released in 2010, the Indian government spent about 4% of its planned central government expenditure for FY1971 on refugee care.
INDIA’S STAND
India supported Sheikh Mujib’s call for independence but initially refrained from participating in the war. Instead, it provided moral and material support to the independence movement. On April 17, 1971, a provisional government of Bangladesh was formed and relocated to Calcutta as the “Bangladesh Government in Exile.”
Meanwhile, the freedom fighters of East Pakistan formed the Mukti Bahini, an armed resistance movement against the West Pakistani military and supporting militias. Comprising members of the Bengali military, paramilitary forces, police, and civilians, these fighters engaged in guerrilla warfare.
India’s support bolstered their efforts. The geographical separation of 1,000 miles of Indian territory between West and East Pakistan meant that Pakistan could not easily reinforce its military presence in East Pakistan with additional air and naval power.
West Pakistan had previously exhibited hostility towards India, notably in the conflicts of 1947 and the 1965 war, which it lost. Its actions in East Pakistan heightened diplomatic tensions and prompted a military buildup in India.
The tipping point occurred on December 3, 1971, when Pakistan launched pre-emptive air strikes on Indian airfields. This act of aggression compelled India to formally enter the war, engaging its Army, Navy, and Air Force in a coordinated response to both the humanitarian crisis and threats to its national sovereignty. Before this, India had adopted a restrained approach, engaging in diplomatic efforts and appealing to West Pakistani leaders to create safe corridors for refugees to return. These appeals were ignored.
THE QUICK END
India’s entry into the 1971 war was driven by the humanitarian crisis and direct threats to its national security. By launching joint military operations with the Mukti Bahini, effective coordination and intelligence sharing were achieved, significantly disrupting Pakistani military efforts. Through a series of strategic offensives, the joint forces rapidly overran West Pakistan’s military presence throughout Dhaka and East Pakistan.
On December 16, 1971, Lieutenant General A.A.K. Niazi of Pakistan unconditionally surrendered to Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora of India, along with 93,000 troops, marking one of the largest surrenders since World War II. The war officially ended with India’s unilateral ceasefire on December 17.
WHY INDIA’S ENGAGEMENT WAS NECESSARY FOR A JOY BANGLA MOVEMENT
The success of the “Joy Bangla” movement on December 16, 1971, could only be possible with India’s commitment to the cause. With the onset of Operation Searchlight, India opened its borders to refugees, providing massive relief operations while simultaneously engaging in diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. Military intervention by India was the last resort.
The military intervention ultimately helped realize the goals of the “Joy Bangla” movement.
Twenty-three years of suppression, from 1947 to 1970, with West Pakistan ruling East Pakistan through military involvement, left the eastern territory with a strong desire for independence, an aspiration difficult to achieve in an economy controlled by West Pakistani industrialists and a polity dominated by a West Pakistan-based military ruler allied with exploitative politicians.
The increasing number of refugees in India proved the fact that there was no internal security structure and local and regional administration available for them to take over the West Pakistan-led apparatus.
Over ten million refugees fled to India in ten months, while thirty million were internally displaced. The refugee headcount included Bengali military wing officials, soldiers, and police personnel. According to the Bangladesh High Commission in London, thousands of families of officials, soldiers, and activists from East Pakistan were interned in West Pakistan. Killings and rapes became daily events of horror to be observed. India’s daily refugee count surged from 17,000 to 60,000, with numbers continuing to rise.
The freedom fighters of East Pakistan had the courage and will to fight for independence, but they lacked the strength of a coordinated war strategy and the full complement of military resources—army, air force, navy, arms, and ammunition—to defeat West Pakistan’s full-fledged military. They had to fight a country’s army that had exposure to past war experiences, something they didn’t have, as East Pakistan was not the war theatre of the 1965 India-Pakistan war. India’s decision to join the war after Pakistan’s attack on Indian territory proved to be the turning point, helping Bangladesh achieve a goal that once seemed unachievable.
Had the Mukti Bahini not received external support, Operation Searchlight could have seriously affected the East Pakistan freedom movement and its hopes to break the colonial shackles of West Pakistan.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/the-fight-for-joy-bangla-how-india-helped-bangladesh-achieve-independence/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: Devendra Fadnavis set to be sworn in today as Maharashtra CM, Eknath Shinde, Ajit Pawar Deputy CMs
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 04:45:20 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis will take oath as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde along with NCP’s Ajit Pawar will take the oath as Deputy Chief Ministers in the new cabinet, sources said.
The oath-taking ceremony will take place at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan and will see the participation of several NDA Chief Ministers and leaders. Ending the long-drawn suspense over who would get the top job, Fadnavis, Shinde, and Pawar met Governor CP Radhakrishnan to stake their claim to form the MahaYuti government.
After meeting the Governor, Fadnavis said, “The swearing-in ceremony of the new government will be held tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I met Eknath Shinde and requested him to join us in this government, as it is the wish of MahaYuti workers…We will fulfill the promises made to the people of Maharashtra.”
It will be Fadnavis’ third term in the top post after being unanimously elected as the Leader of the Maharashtra BJP Legislative Party on Wednesday. The decision came after days of speculation and political manoeuvring as Eknath Shinde wanted to become the Chief Minister of Maharashtra. However, the BJP, refused to budge and later, Shinde said he would back PM Modi’s pick.
Meanwhile, Eknath Shinde on Wednesday expressed his satisfaction with the two-and a-half years of the Mahayuti government in Maharashtra, ahead of the swearing-in of Fadnavis as Chief Minister.
“I am very happy with the completion of two-and-a-half years. The work done by our government–the MahaYuti government–by the three of us and our team in the last 2.5 years is remarkable. It will be written in golden letters in history. We are proud to have taken such significant decisions,” said Shinde.
Shinde was accompanied by Fadnavis and NCP chief Ajit Pawar at a press conference. Addressing the media, Pawar emphasised their commitment to effective governance. “We will leave no stone unturned in running the government. Party activities will be managed by BJP chief Chandrashekhar Bawankule and NCP’s Sunil Tatkare,” he said.
There was also some light-hearted banter during the press conference. Asked whether he and Ajit Pawar would take oath on December 5 as Fadnavis’ deputies, Shinde said, “Wait till evening…” Pawar, in response to Shinde’s reply, said, “Sham tak unka samaj aayega (We will know about Shinde by evening), I will take it (oath), I will not wait.”
Shinde then said, “Dada (Ajit Pawar) has experience of taking (oath) both in the morning and evening.” This elicted laughter from all those present at the press conference. In the year 2019, Pawar had taken oath as the Deputy Chief Minister with Fadnavis as the Chief Minister in an early morning ceremony at Raj Bhavan.
The 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Election witnessed a resounding victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Mahayuti alliance, which secured a landslide win with 235 seats out of 288. The results marked a significant milestone for the BJP, which emerged as the single-largest party with 132 seats. The Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party also recorded notable gains, securing 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
While, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) suffered a major setback with Congress winning just 16 seats. Its alliance partner, Shiv Sena (UBT), won 20 seats, while the NCP (Sharad Pawar faction) secured only 10 seats.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-set-to-be-sworn-in-today-as-maharashtra-cm-eknath-shinde-ajit-pawar-deputy-cms/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: RBI raises UPI lite wallet limit to Rs 5,000
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 17:08:49 +0000
Content: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has increased the wallet limit for UPI Lite from ₹2,000 to ₹5,000. The new guidelines, announced on Wednesday, also raised the upper transaction limit under the offline framework from ₹500 to ₹1,000 per transaction.
According to the RBI’s circular, the revised limits are effective immediately, enabling users to make higher-value transactions conveniently while maintaining the simplicity and security of UPI Lite. “The enhanced limits for UPI Lite shall be ₹1,000 per transaction, with ₹5,000 being the total limit at any point in time,” the circular said.
Previously, the offline framework permitted a maximum of ₹500 per transaction and a total limit of ₹2,000 for payment instruments. The updated framework is expected to streamline digital payments for day-to-day purchases and provide a more robust and inclusive digital payment experience for consumers.
The RBI clarified that the changes have been implemented under the authority of Section 18, read with Section 10(2) of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. This initiative aligns with the central bank’s ongoing efforts to promote digital transactions while ensuring ease of use and enhanced security for consumers.
Earlier, in October 2024, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had announced an increase in transaction limits for UPI services during the monetary policy briefing, emphasizing the growing importance of digital payment platforms in India’s economy.
The updated limits come at a time when Unified Payments Interface (UPI) continues to set milestones in the digital payment space. In October 2024, UPI achieved a record-breaking 16.58 billion financial transactions in a single month.
Since its launch in 2016 by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), UPI has revolutionized the country’s payment system, integrating multiple bank accounts into a single mobile application for seamless fund transfers, peer-to-peer transactions, and merchant payments.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-raises-upi-lite-wallet-limit-to-rs-5000/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: “Trying to deepen our relationship with India,” says Bangladesh Press Secy ahead of FS Misri’s visit
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 15:33:02 +0000
Content: Bangladesh is set to host Indian Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri amid heightened tensions between the two nations, with Shafiqul Alam, Press Secretary to the Chief Advisor of Bangladesh’s interim government, Muhammad Yunus, emphasizing the intent to strengthen bilateral ties.
Alam expressed optimism about the upcoming discussions between the foreign secretaries of both nations, stating that the talks would focus on mutual interests and help bolster the relationship. He said, “We were looking forward to the Indian Foreign Secretary’s visit. Both sides are keen to discuss issues of mutual interest, and we hope these meetings will deepen ties between the two neighbors.”
Addressing the state of India-Bangladesh relations, Alam said, “Our relationship with India remains steady, and we are working to improve it further. Both nations are trying to deepen their ties, and we are hopeful that relations will grow stronger in the coming days and months.”
The Press Secretary’s comments come a day after Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, was summoned by Bangladesh’s Foreign Ministry following a protest attack on the premises of the Bangladesh acting High Commission in Agartala. During the meeting, Verma engaged with Riaz Hamidullah, acting Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh’s interim government, to discuss the incident.
Following the meeting, Verma reiterated India’s commitment to fostering a robust and cooperative relationship with Bangladesh. Speaking to reporters, he said, “India and Bangladesh share a wide-ranging and multifaceted relationship that cannot be defined by a single issue. We aim to build a stable, constructive, and mutually beneficial partnership.”
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/trying-to-deepen-our-relationship-with-india-says-bangladesh-press-secy-ahead-of-fs-misris-visit/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: Nepal’s Industry Minister Bhandari meets India’s Piyush Goyal to attract Indian investment
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:48:18 +0000
Content: Nepal’s Minister for Industry, Commerce, and Supplies, Damodar Bhandari, met India’s Minister for Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, in New Delhi on Monday to discuss matters of bilateral trade and investment.
During the meeting, Minister Bhandari urged Goyal to address the challenges posed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) requirements imposed on Nepali exports such as cement, plywood, and shoes.
The two ministers also held positive discussions on amending the Treaty of Transit to facilitate smoother trade operations. It was agreed to organize a Commerce Secretary-level meeting in Nepal soon to further advance cooperation in trade and transit.
Highlighting Nepal’s immense investment potential, Bhandari emphasized the country’s investor-friendly environment and urged Goyal to encourage Indian investors to explore opportunities in Nepal.
Minister Bhandari also met India’s Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri, to review progress on energy cooperation since their last meeting in August 2024. Discussions focused on ongoing and new infrastructure projects, including the signing of a B2B agreement between Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC).
The talks underscored strengthening energy ties between the two nations, with a focus on ensuring uninterrupted supply of petroleum, oil, and lubricants to Nepal. Both parties agreed to expedite the construction of the Siliguri-Jhapa and Amlekhgunj-Chitwan pipelines, along with associated terminals, to enhance cross-border energy connectivity.
Minister Puri invited Nepal to join the Global Biofuels Alliance to unlock its biofuels potential, signaling further avenues for cooperation in sustainable energy.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepals-industry-minister-bhandari-meets-indias-piyush-goyal-to-attract-indian-investment/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: Centre allocates Rs 1.03 lakh crore to rural schemes for the poor in current fiscal: Shivraj Chouhan
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:35:51 +0000
Content: Union Rural Development Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Wednesday that the Ministry has spent Rs 1.03 lakh crore on rural development and social welfare schemes so far in the current financial year, out of the total budget allocation of Rs 1.84 lakh crore.
“We are working tirelessly to fulfill the Prime Minister’s vision by connecting rural communities with employment opportunities and essential facilities,” Chouhan stated at a press conference.
The minister highlighted that under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G), a target of constructing 2.95 crore houses by March 2024 had been set. Of these, almost all have been sanctioned, and 2.67 crore houses have already been completed. Recognizing the program’s success and the ongoing demand for rural housing, the scheme has been extended to construct an additional 2 crore houses over the next five years at an estimated cost of over Rs 3.06 lakh crore.
To ensure no eligible family is excluded, the exclusion criteria have been relaxed. Conditions such as owning a mechanized fishing boat, refrigerator, or landline phone have been removed, while the income threshold for exclusion has been increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month.
Chouhan also explained that financial assistance for constructing these houses is being provided through various government schemes. Under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a 3% interest subvention is offered for projects up to Rs 2 crore, with a repayment period of seven years. Additionally, under the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI) Scheme, a 33.33% subsidy is provided for storage infrastructure, and margin money requirements for PACS (Primary Agricultural Credit Societies) have been reduced from 20% to 10%.
Each house under PMAY-G includes basic amenities such as toilets, cooking gas connections, and electricity through integration with schemes like the Swachh Bharat Mission, Ujjwala Yojana, and Saubhagya Yojana. Beneficiaries also receive 90–95 days of wage support under MGNREGA for constructing their homes. Furthermore, under the Pradhan Mantri Surya Ghar Scheme, solar rooftop connections are provided to reduce electricity costs.
So far, 38 lakh houses have been allocated to 18 states under the new target, with Rs 10,668 crore already disbursed. States have been urged to release their share promptly and submit proposals for further installments.
Highlighting the efficiency of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mechanism, Chouhan noted that over 10 lakh beneficiaries received their first installment in one click, authorized by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an event in Bhubaneswar. On September 17, 2024, PM Modi also approved 15 lakh houses and released Rs 3,180 crore for over 10 lakh beneficiaries. Additionally, more than 26 lakh houses have been handed over to their owners.
The minister also emphasized the ongoing development under PMGSY-III (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana), with 6,614 km of roads approved between June 9 and December 2, 2024. Another 2,337 km of roads were sanctioned under the PM-Janman scheme, and over 68,000 Amrit Sarovars (water reservoirs) have been constructed or revived.
Highlighting the empowerment of rural women, Chouhan mentioned that over 1.15 crore women have become ‘Lakhpati Didis’ through self-help groups under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM).
The government is also set to revamp the Jan MGNREGA App to enhance transparency and gather citizen feedback on the scheme’s implementation. Provisions for socially disadvantaged groups—50% SC/ST, 15% minorities, and 33% women—remain integral, with special attention to manual scavengers, persons with disabilities, and female-headed households.
Chouhan reaffirmed the government’s commitment to addressing any shortcomings in MGNREGA and PMAY-G implementation and promised that additional funds would be allocated if the demand exceeds initial estimates.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/centre-allocates-rs-1-03-lakh-crore-to-rural-schemes-for-the-poor-in-current-fiscal-shivraj-chouhan/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: Crunch time in France as lawmakers look set to oust Barnier’s government
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:22:44 +0000
Content: French lawmakers are all but certain to oust the governmentwith a no-confidence motionon Wednesday, plunging the euro zone’s second-biggest economic power deeper into political turmoil.
Barring a last-minute surprise, Prime Minister Michel Barnier’s government will be France’s first to be forced out by a no-confidence vote in more than 60 years, at a time when the country is struggling to tame a massive budget deficit.
That would leave a hole at the heart of the European Union at a time when Germany is also weakened and in election mode, weeks before U.S. President-elect Donald Trump re-enters the White House.
In a TV interview on Tuesday, Barnier said he still believed his government could survive the vote, scheduled for the evening after a debate starting at 4 p.m. (1500 GMT).
But far-right National Rally (RN) chief Jordan Bardella confirmed on Wednesday that his party would vote to topple Barnier alongside left-wing parties.
He said Barnier’s optimism showed that the government was “completely out of touch with what is happening in the country”.
“This government is dangerous for my country,” he told France Inter radio. “We will vote for the no-confidence motion.”
Barnier’s interior minister,Bruno Retailleau, was downbeat.
“Nothing’s over until the vote but we can see we’re headed towards censure (of the government),” he told CNews.
President Emmanuel Macron, who won a second mandate in 2022, precipitated the crisis by calling a snap parliamentary election in June.
His term as president runs until mid-2027 and he cannot be forced out by parliament, but the RN and the hard left have already been saying he should resign as he faces his biggest crisis since the Yellow Vest popular unrest of 2018-2019.
Since Macron called the election, France’s CAC 40 .FCHI has dropped nearly 10% and is the heaviest loser among top EU economies. The single currency is down nearly 4%.
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE PUTS BID TO CUT BUDGET DEFICIT AT RISK
Political uncertainty is already hitting France’s services sector, a monthly survey showed.
“The positive signals … that were seen over the summer, partly due to the Olympics, are now a thing of the past,” Hamburg Commercial Bank economist Tariq Kamal Chaudhry said after seeing the HCOB purchasing managers’ index for France’s service sector.
Barnier’s draft budget had sought to cut the fiscal deficit, which is projected to exceed 6% of national output this year, with 60 billion euros ($63 billion) in tax hikes and spending cuts. It sought to drag the deficit down to 5% next year.
The caretaker government could propose emergency legislation to roll over spending limits and tax provisions from this year. But that would mean Barnier’s savings measures falling by the wayside.
Barnier says the consequences of voting him out will be catastrophic for state finances, but RN lawmaker Laure Lavalette told TF1 TV: “There is no reason for this to lead to major chaos. Don’t play with fears … it’s not all going to crumble.”
Bond investors are likely to spare France the dire financial “storm” Barnier has warned of, but the fallout from the political crisis will hurt businesses, consumers and taxpayers, economists and experts say.
“This is a slow-burning crisis which will lead to an ongoing widening of spreads and an ongoing deterioration of sovereign creditworthiness,” said Union Investment’s head of fixed income and FX, Christian Kopf, who is underweight on French debt.
“But for the time being, I do not see the ingredients for this to totally get out of hand and morph into an outright sovereign debt crisis.”
If the no-confidence vote passes, Macron may well ask Barnier to stay on in a caretaker role as it could take until next year to find a new prime minister.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/crunch-time-in-france-as-lawmakers-look-set-to-oust-barniers-government/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: India expands world’s largest grain storage plan in cooperative sector
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 12:37:27 +0000
Content: Under the pilot phase of the ambitious World’s Largest Grain Storage Plan in the cooperative sector, godowns have been successfully constructed at Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) in 11 states across India. These include Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Telangana, Tripura, and Rajasthan.
The initiative, supported by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), and NABARD Consultancy Services (NABCONS), has achieved a total storage capacity of 9,750 metric tonnes.
Of the 11 constructed storage units, three—located in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Telangana—are retained for PACS’ own use. Another three facilities, in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat, have been hired out to state or central agencies, demonstrating the project’s versatility in addressing both local and institutional grain storage needs.
Encouraged by the success of the pilot phase, the government has extended the project. As of November 21, 2024, over 500 additional PACS across the country have been identified for the construction of godowns, further advancing the plan to enhance storage infrastructure at the grassroots level.
The initiative integrates subsidies and interest subventions through various government schemes, such as the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) and the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Scheme (AMI). Under the AIF scheme, PACS receive a 3% interest subvention on loans up to ₹2 crore, with a repayment tenure of seven years (2+5 years). The AMI scheme provides a 33.33% subsidy to PACS for constructing storage units, while also reducing the margin money requirement from 20% to 10%.
Additionally, PACS receive subsidies for ancillary infrastructure such as boundary walls and drainage systems, capped at one-third of the total permissible subsidy for the godown or the actual cost—whichever is lower.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/india-expands-worlds-largest-grain-storage-plan-in-cooperative-sector/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 02:45:36

Title: PM Modi reiterates commitment to Bhutan’s development, discusses key areas of cooperation
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 03:21:04 +0000
Content: The King of Bhutan, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held discussions during the King’s visit, with a focus on enhancing bilateral cooperation and addressing regional and global issues of mutual interest.
During the talks on Thursday, PM Modi reaffirmed India’s commitment to its enduring friendship and cooperation with Bhutan, ensuring support for Bhutan’s socio-economic development.
The two leaders also expressed satisfaction with the significant progress made since their last meeting in March 2024 and welcomed the regular high-level visits and consultations covering diverse sectors of cooperation.
The King of Bhutan Wangchuck, and the Queen of Bhutan, Jetsun Pema Wangchuck, are on an official visit to India from December 5-6. They are accompanied by the Minister for Energy and Natural Resources, Gem Tshering, and senior officials Bhutan government. They arrived in New Delhi on Thursday morning and were received by EAM S Jaishankar at the airport in New Delhi.
“During the visit, the King of Bhutan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held discussions covering the entire gamut of bilateral cooperation and regional and global issues of mutual interest. External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar and senior officials called on The King of Bhutan,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a press release.
The leaders of both nations expressed satisfaction with the significant progress made since their last meeting in March 2024 and welcomed the regular high-level visits and consultations covering diverse sectors of cooperation. They positively assessed the expanding partnership between the two countries, including in areas of trade and economic connectivity, infrastructure, energy, skill development, education, health, cultural heritage, capacity building, sports, youth exchanges, digital economy, e-mobility, space technology, environment conservation, and people-to-people contacts.
Wangchuck and PM Modi expressed satisfaction at the excellent state of bilateral relations and reaffirmed their commitment to further strengthen these exemplary relations. Wangchuck conveyed appreciation for the invaluable support that the Government of India provides for Bhutan’s socio-economic development.
PM Modi reaffirmed India’s abiding commitment to its enduring bonds of friendship and cooperation with Bhutan and reiterated continued and full support to the socio-economic development in Bhutan based on the priorities of the Royal Government and as per the vision of Bhutan’s King, the MEA said.
The Bhutanese side thanked the Indian government for stepping up the development support for Bhutan under the 13th Five Year Plan (2024-29) and India’s support for RGoB’s Economic Stimulus Programme, the release added
Meanwhile, Wangchuck shared with PM Modi the progress in the implementation of his vision for the Gelephu Mindfulness City Special Administrative Region, and how India and Bhutan can work together on the project for the betterment of the two peoples and the region. PM Modi reassured Wangchuck of India’s continued support for the Gelephu Mindfulness City project, which will bring prosperity and well-being to Bhutan and also the border areas, and further strengthen economic and investment linkages between the two countries.
Reaffirming their commitment to strengthen the mutually beneficial cooperation as elaborated in the Joint Vision Statement on India-Bhutan Energy Partnership released during PM Modi’s visit to Bhutan in March 2024, the leaders reviewed recent progress in strategic partnerships in the energy sector, including non-hydro renewable energy between Indian and Bhutanese entities through access to Indian financing and energy markets.
They expressed satisfaction that the 1020 MW Punatshangchhu-II hydropower project was nearing completion, and looked forward to its commissioning in the near future. The leaders agreed on the need for early conclusion of the Punatsangchhu-I hydro power project. The two sides reiterated the importance of cooperation in the hydropower sector, and their commitment to advancing it, including through finalising modalities urgently for new projects, including reservoir hydro projects, the MEA release said.
The two leaders also expressed satisfaction over the opening of the Integrated Check Post at Darranga, Assam, which can boost tourism and economic activity in eastern Bhutan and the adjoining border areas of Assam.
They also noted with satisfaction that several initiatives agreed upon during earlier meetings, such as cross-border connectivity and infrastructure projects, are progressing steadily, including establishment of two cross border rail links and boosting digital connectivity. Both sides noted the recent decisions taken for further improving bilateral trade and commerce.
The leaders welcomed the progress made in the space sector, particularly in implementation of the Joint Plan of Action for cooperation and expressed satisfaction on increased collaboration in the field of education, with emphasis on STEM disciplines, the MEA added.
India and Bhutan enjoy unique ties of friendship and cooperation, characterized by mutual understanding, trust and exceptional cooperation at all levels. The bilateral discussions were held in a spirit of profound friendship, and reflected the strong historical ties, goodwill and understanding that exist between the two countries.
A day before, Jaishankar called on the Bhutan King and assured India’s full support for the development goals of Bhutan. During the meeting, Jaishankar and Wangchuck discussed the steady progress that the India-Bhutan partnership is making. (ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/pm-modi-reiterates-commitment-to-bhutans-development-discusses-key-areas-of-cooperation/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: Devendra Fadnavis sworn in as Maharashtra Chief Minister
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 13:15:23 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in a grand ceremony held at Azad Maidan, Mumbai. Governor CP Radhakrishnan administered the oath of office to Fadnavis, marking the beginning of his historic new term.
The event was attended by a host of prominent leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Chief Ministers from several states, such as Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Bhupendra Patel (Gujarat), and Pushkar Singh Dhami (Uttarakhand), also witnessed the occasion.
Adding a touch of glamour to the ceremony, cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar and Bollywood stars Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, and Madhuri Dixit were present to celebrate the political milestone.
Fadnavis, born on July 22, 1970, in Nagpur, comes from a middle-class family. He holds degrees in law, business management, and project management, which have contributed to his astute political acumen. His political journey began in 1992 when he was elected as a councillor in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, a position he held for two consecutive terms before advancing to serve as an MLA for five terms.
From 2014 to 2019, Fadnavis served as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, becoming the second-youngest to hold the position after Sharad Pawar. During his tenure, he oversaw major projects, including the Samruddhi Expressway, the Police Digitisation Project, and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Krishi Sanman Scheme, which bolstered the state’s infrastructure and welfare initiatives.
Fadnavis briefly held the Chief Minister’s position during the political turmoil in 2019 when the Shiv Sena broke its alliance with the BJP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government with the Congress and NCP.
In the 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Elections, the BJP-led Mahayuti alliance secured a resounding victory, winning 235 seats. The BJP emerged as the single largest party with 132 seats, while its allies, the Shiv Sena and NCP, secured 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
The MVA alliance suffered a significant defeat, with Congress managing only 16 seats, Shiv Sena (UBT) securing 20, and the Sharad Pawar faction of the NCP winning just 10 seats.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-sworn-in-as-maharashtra-chief-minister/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: EAM Jaishankar reiterates India’s support for two-state solution, explains abstention from UN resolutions on Gaza conflict
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 12:41:22 +0000
Content: External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reiterated India’s firm support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict, emphasizing the importance of addressing terrorism and hostage-taking in global discourse.
Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Jaishankar defended India’s decision to abstain from certain United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) resolutions on the Gaza conflict, stating that these resolutions failed to capture the full scope of the situation.
Jaishankar clarified India’s stance in response to TMC MP Saket Gokhale’s inquiry, asserting, “We support the two-state solution and have been public and unambiguous about it. There should be no confusion regarding our position.”
When asked about the International Criminal Court’s (ICC) arrest warrants against Israeli and Hamas leaders, Jaishankar noted that India is not an ICC member. “India decided not to join the ICC after thorough deliberation. Therefore, its decisions are not binding on us, and we have not taken a formal position on this matter,” he said.
The minister also highlighted India’s longstanding humanitarian support for Palestine. He detailed contributions to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), adding a significant increase in annual aid from $1 million to $5 million under the current government. Additionally, he mentioned the provision of over 165 metric tons of medicines and other supplies to Palestine and Lebanon in recent years.
Regarding Israel’s ban on UNRWA, Jaishankar confirmed India’s unwavering commitment to its contributions, saying, “We continue to stand by our decision and have released the latest tranche of support to UNRWA.”
Explaining India’s abstention from some UNGA resolutions, Jaishankar emphasized that these lacked balance and failed to address critical aspects such as the October 7 Hamas attack, terrorism, and hostage-taking. “As a country that has suffered from terrorism, India cannot support resolutions that underplay such acts. Resolutions must be well-drafted, balanced, and reflect the entirety of the situation,” he said.
Jaishankar reiterated India’s condemnation of terrorism and hostage-taking while advocating for adherence to humanitarian law and minimizing civilian casualties. He stressed India’s call for a ceasefire and an end to violence in the region, adding that India’s position remains consistent and principled.
The Gaza conflict escalated after Hamas launched an attack on Israel on October 7, 2023, prompting a large-scale Israeli counter-offensive. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first global leaders to condemn Hamas’ actions, while also urging for a ceasefire and the unconditional release of hostages. India continues to advocate for the two-state solution as the pathway to resolving the long-standing conflict.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/eam-jaishankar-reiterates-indias-support-for-two-state-solution-explains-abstention-from-un-resolutions-on-gaza-conflict/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: The fight for joy Bangla: How India helped Bangladesh achieve independence
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 10:22:10 +0000
Content: Pakistan, created in 1947 after the partition of British India, was a nation seemingly destined for further division. Many analysts considered it a geographical absurdity, a loose amalgamation of two separate territories 1,000 miles apart. Beyond sharing a Muslim majority, West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now known as Bangladesh) had little in common.
One of the most significant differences between the two regions was language, which became a major source of identity problems and fuelled Bengali nationalism among the people of East Pakistan.
While people in West Pakistan spoke Urdu, the main language in East Pakistan was Bengali. In December 1947, students at the University of Dhaka protested, demanding that Bengali be recognized as one of Pakistan’s official languages. This marked the beginning of the language war between East and West Pakistan. Pakistan’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, responded by visiting Dhaka in March 1948 to deliver a stern message: Urdu would be the only official language of Pakistan. Moreover, leaders who spoke Bengali in the East Pakistan assembly were warned they could be tried for treason. Ultimately, West Pakistan imposed Urdu as the sole national language across both regions.
In response, the Bhasha Andolan (Language Movement) began in East Pakistan in 1952. This movement witnessed the deaths of many activists, politicians, and civilians due to atrocities committed by the West Pakistan-led regional regime. A key outcome of the language movement was the establishment of the Awami League in 1955, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
In 1956, Pakistan was established as an Islamic Republic with a new constitution. The country that year accepted Urdu and Bengali as official languages. In 1958, a military coup led by General Muhammad Ayub Khan abrogated that constitution.
The other big difference between the West and East Pakistan was the culture being followed by its people. Speaking a different language than West Pakistan, the people of East Pakistan followed a single ethnicity, Bengali, with a rich past. On the other hand, West Pakistan was a societal mix of people from different origins, including Punjab, Sindh, Baluchistan, and Pashtun people from its border areas, the North-West Frontier Province. Culturally, the people in East Pakistan had a stronger sense of belongingness than those in West Pakistan.
Despite these big differences, there could have been a united Pakistan based on religious similarity if both territories were treated equally by the country’s political leadership. However, the united Pakistan failed miserably here. The two territories, separated by a thousand miles, with different languages spoken and cultures followed, were ruled by a unilateral political leadership from West Pakistan.
The top political lineage under Jinnah that united Pakistan followed was largely from West Pakistan only. Also, its military wing leadership, the army, the air force, and the navy were based in West Pakistan only.
These disparities manifested in the repercussions felt by East Pakistan from 1947 until its liberation in 1971 as Bangladesh. The West Pakistani leadership treated East Pakistan as a colony, extracting benefits while denying it the rights and resources it deserved.
EAST PAKISTAN WAS MORE PROSPEROUS THAN WEST PAKISTAN
According to the 1951 Pakistan Census, East Pakistan had a population of 42 million, exceeding West Pakistan’s 33.7 million. Geographically, East Pakistan was a riverine territory with ample rainfall, making it more prosperous. Its fertile and productive lands stood in contrast to West Pakistan, which, aside from Punjab, was largely dry with barren areas.
Moreover, a study titled “The Struggle in Bangladesh,” published in the Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars, indicates that in the initial years, East Pakistan’s GDP surpassed that of West Pakistan. Educationally, East Pakistan also had an advantage.

Initially, in 1949–50, East Pakistan’s GDP was 13,130 million rupees, more than West Pakistan’s 11,830 million rupees. In education, East Pakistan had 29,633 primary schools in 1947, compared to just 8,413 in West Pakistan. Similarly, East Pakistan had 50 colleges, while West Pakistan had 40.
WEST PAKISTAN’S COLONY
Despite East Pakistan’s higher GDP, better educational levels, and stable cultural heritage, data analysis reveals that West Pakistan monopolized industrialization and other benefits by installing a lame-duck government in East Pakistan.
East Pakistan was the primary source of jute, united Pakistan’s key export commodity. Logistically, industrial units for cotton textiles should have been developed there, but the country’s leadership chose to establish them in West Pakistan. Economic institutions and infrastructure developments, such as seaports, railways, and roads essential for promoting industrial growth further, were largely concentrated in West Pakistan only.
Conversely, East Pakistan experienced limited development, primarily aimed at supporting industries located in West Pakistan, according to the study. Furthermore, most industries in East Pakistan were developed by industrialists based in West Pakistan. Just 11% of industries were owned by Bengalis, making East Pakistan a labour hub for West Pakistan.
The deteriorating situation of East Pakistan over the next two decades reflects this exploitation. While East Pakistan was once more prosperous than West Pakistan, by 1970, the situation had reversed entirely.

Data from the study reveal that by 1968–69, West Pakistan’s GDP exceeded East Pakistan’s by 34%, and its per capita income was 62% higher. In united Pakistan’s first and second Five-Year Plans, 68% of the allocations went to West Pakistan, slightly reduced to 64% in the third plan. Pakistan’s economy largely depended on foreign assistance, of which 70% to 80% benefited West Pakistan. Although East Pakistan contributed up to 70% of Pakistan’s export earnings, 75% of imports were directed to West Pakistan.
CALL FOR SELF-DETERMINATION
These factors, language suppression, cultural differences, economic exploitation, mass arrests, killings, disappearances, and colonial treatment, left East Pakistanis facing an uncertain future after two decades of hostility.
In the 1954 regional elections, a coalition known as the United Front defeated the Muslim League, which had been based in West Pakistan and had ruled East Pakistan until then. In February 1966, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of the Awami League presented his Six-Point Charter to the then-military ruler of Pakistan, Field Marshal Ayub Khan, demanding autonomy and greater control over East Pakistan’s economic affairs. These Six Points became central to Bengali nationalism and eventually transformed into a liberation movement following the 1970 general elections in Pakistan.
1970 PAKISTAN ELECTION: A TURNING POINT – EAST PAKISTAN’S CALL FOR INDEPENDENCE
Pakistan conducted its first general election on December 7, 1970, which is regarded as the most transparent election in the country’s history, according to Geo News, a major Pakistani news platform. The main contenders were Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), based in West Pakistan, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s Awami League, based in East Pakistan. The Awami League achieved a landslide victory, winning 170 seats, while the PPP secured only 81.
Despite the Awami League’s clear mandate to govern all of Pakistan, the country’s military ruler, General Yahya Khan, and the PPP’s Bhutto opposed this outcome. They dismissed the election results and imposed martial law, denying the Awami League its rightful leadership.
This action led to widespread protests and riots in East Pakistan. In response, Sheikh Mujib initiated a civil disobedience movement. On March 7, 1971, the Awami League mobilized 50,000 Bengalis to start a peaceful protest in Dhaka. However, on March 25, 1971, Sheikh Mujib was arrested and airlifted to West Pakistan with the launch of Operation Searchlight.
OPERATION SEARCHLIGHT
Following Sheikh Mujib’s declaration of independence for East Pakistan, West Pakistan launched a brutal crackdown on Bengalis. Operation Searchlight, initiated by West Pakistan on March 25, 1971, stands as one of the most horrific state-run military operations in history. According to various investigative estimates, including the Russian newspaper Pravda, approximately 3 million East Pakistanis were murdered by Pakistani troops and supporting militias.
In the 1970 general election, West Pakistan-based parties failed to win any seats in East Pakistan, underscoring the widespread support for the Awami League and its pro-independence stance among civilians, police, and security forces in East Pakistan. Consequently, West Pakistan’s troops and supporting radical militias targeted these Bengali-speaking populations across the region.
Deploying hundreds of thousands of troops across Dhaka and throughout East Bengal, supported by air and naval power, the main targets were Awami League politicians, military personnel, East Bengal police, and Bengali-speaking civilians.
An analytical report published in the Dhaka Tribune indicates that one of Operation Searchlight’s objectives was to disarm and arrest Bengali soldiers and policemen serving in East Pakistan. Another aim was to attack Hindu-majority areas of Dhaka. On the night of March 25, 1971, casualty figures in Dhaka alone reached approximately 35,000.
During the nine months of the operation, hundreds of thousands of Bengali women were subjected to rape. According to a report in the Smithsonian, around 400,000 women underwent late-term abortions, although the actual number is believed to be much higher.
REFUGEES IN INDIA
The brutal crackdown compelled millions of Bangladeshis to flee to India. By May 1971, India was hosting 1.5 million refugees, a number that swelled to around 10 million by December 1971, making it the largest refugee crisis in the modern world. Internally, the military operation displaced approximately 30 million people within Bangladesh.
This massive influx placed a significant burden on India. Nevertheless, the country stepped forward to assist, despite lacking domestic laws to manage refugees and not being a signatory to the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention or its 1967 protocol. India established 825 refugee camps across seven states, with 19 central camps capable of accommodating up to 50,000 refugees each.
ECONOMIC BURDEN
The economic burden was significant. India had to reassess its Fourth Five-Year Plan. The 1971–72 Budget stated, “The country’s resources, physical as well as fiscal, were greatly strained by developments across the border, the influx of nearly ten million refugees and the outbreak of hostilities in December 1971.” 1 Despite these challenges, the economy responded effectively, as noted in the budget document.  
A World Bank assessment, based on 9 million refugees, estimated the direct cost to India at approximately US$700 million from April 1, 1971, to March 31, 1972, which equates to around US$5.5 billion today. India managed this expenditure largely through internal resources. According to a CIA document from March 1972, released in 2010, the Indian government spent about 4% of its planned central government expenditure for FY1971 on refugee care.
INDIA’S STAND
India supported Sheikh Mujib’s call for independence but initially refrained from participating in the war. Instead, it provided moral and material support to the independence movement. On April 17, 1971, a provisional government of Bangladesh was formed and relocated to Calcutta as the “Bangladesh Government in Exile.”
Meanwhile, the freedom fighters of East Pakistan formed the Mukti Bahini, an armed resistance movement against the West Pakistani military and supporting militias. Comprising members of the Bengali military, paramilitary forces, police, and civilians, these fighters engaged in guerrilla warfare.
India’s support bolstered their efforts. The geographical separation of 1,000 miles of Indian territory between West and East Pakistan meant that Pakistan could not easily reinforce its military presence in East Pakistan with additional air and naval power.
West Pakistan had previously exhibited hostility towards India, notably in the conflicts of 1947 and the 1965 war, which it lost. Its actions in East Pakistan heightened diplomatic tensions and prompted a military buildup in India.
The tipping point occurred on December 3, 1971, when Pakistan launched pre-emptive air strikes on Indian airfields. This act of aggression compelled India to formally enter the war, engaging its Army, Navy, and Air Force in a coordinated response to both the humanitarian crisis and threats to its national sovereignty. Before this, India had adopted a restrained approach, engaging in diplomatic efforts and appealing to West Pakistani leaders to create safe corridors for refugees to return. These appeals were ignored.
THE QUICK END
India’s entry into the 1971 war was driven by the humanitarian crisis and direct threats to its national security. By launching joint military operations with the Mukti Bahini, effective coordination and intelligence sharing were achieved, significantly disrupting Pakistani military efforts. Through a series of strategic offensives, the joint forces rapidly overran West Pakistan’s military presence throughout Dhaka and East Pakistan.
On December 16, 1971, Lieutenant General A.A.K. Niazi of Pakistan unconditionally surrendered to Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora of India, along with 93,000 troops, marking one of the largest surrenders since World War II. The war officially ended with India’s unilateral ceasefire on December 17.
WHY INDIA’S ENGAGEMENT WAS NECESSARY FOR A JOY BANGLA MOVEMENT
The success of the “Joy Bangla” movement on December 16, 1971, could only be possible with India’s commitment to the cause. With the onset of Operation Searchlight, India opened its borders to refugees, providing massive relief operations while simultaneously engaging in diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. Military intervention by India was the last resort.
The military intervention ultimately helped realize the goals of the “Joy Bangla” movement.
Twenty-three years of suppression, from 1947 to 1970, with West Pakistan ruling East Pakistan through military involvement, left the eastern territory with a strong desire for independence, an aspiration difficult to achieve in an economy controlled by West Pakistani industrialists and a polity dominated by a West Pakistan-based military ruler allied with exploitative politicians.
The increasing number of refugees in India proved the fact that there was no internal security structure and local and regional administration available for them to take over the West Pakistan-led apparatus.
Over ten million refugees fled to India in ten months, while thirty million were internally displaced. The refugee headcount included Bengali military wing officials, soldiers, and police personnel. According to the Bangladesh High Commission in London, thousands of families of officials, soldiers, and activists from East Pakistan were interned in West Pakistan. Killings and rapes became daily events of horror to be observed. India’s daily refugee count surged from 17,000 to 60,000, with numbers continuing to rise.
The freedom fighters of East Pakistan had the courage and will to fight for independence, but they lacked the strength of a coordinated war strategy and the full complement of military resources—army, air force, navy, arms, and ammunition—to defeat West Pakistan’s full-fledged military. They had to fight a country’s army that had exposure to past war experiences, something they didn’t have, as East Pakistan was not the war theatre of the 1965 India-Pakistan war. India’s decision to join the war after Pakistan’s attack on Indian territory proved to be the turning point, helping Bangladesh achieve a goal that once seemed unachievable.
Had the Mukti Bahini not received external support, Operation Searchlight could have seriously affected the East Pakistan freedom movement and its hopes to break the colonial shackles of West Pakistan.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/the-fight-for-joy-bangla-how-india-helped-bangladesh-achieve-independence/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: Devendra Fadnavis set to be sworn in today as Maharashtra CM, Eknath Shinde, Ajit Pawar Deputy CMs
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 04:45:20 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis will take oath as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde along with NCP’s Ajit Pawar will take the oath as Deputy Chief Ministers in the new cabinet, sources said.
The oath-taking ceremony will take place at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan and will see the participation of several NDA Chief Ministers and leaders. Ending the long-drawn suspense over who would get the top job, Fadnavis, Shinde, and Pawar met Governor CP Radhakrishnan to stake their claim to form the MahaYuti government.
After meeting the Governor, Fadnavis said, “The swearing-in ceremony of the new government will be held tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I met Eknath Shinde and requested him to join us in this government, as it is the wish of MahaYuti workers…We will fulfill the promises made to the people of Maharashtra.”
It will be Fadnavis’ third term in the top post after being unanimously elected as the Leader of the Maharashtra BJP Legislative Party on Wednesday. The decision came after days of speculation and political manoeuvring as Eknath Shinde wanted to become the Chief Minister of Maharashtra. However, the BJP, refused to budge and later, Shinde said he would back PM Modi’s pick.
Meanwhile, Eknath Shinde on Wednesday expressed his satisfaction with the two-and a-half years of the Mahayuti government in Maharashtra, ahead of the swearing-in of Fadnavis as Chief Minister.
“I am very happy with the completion of two-and-a-half years. The work done by our government–the MahaYuti government–by the three of us and our team in the last 2.5 years is remarkable. It will be written in golden letters in history. We are proud to have taken such significant decisions,” said Shinde.
Shinde was accompanied by Fadnavis and NCP chief Ajit Pawar at a press conference. Addressing the media, Pawar emphasised their commitment to effective governance. “We will leave no stone unturned in running the government. Party activities will be managed by BJP chief Chandrashekhar Bawankule and NCP’s Sunil Tatkare,” he said.
There was also some light-hearted banter during the press conference. Asked whether he and Ajit Pawar would take oath on December 5 as Fadnavis’ deputies, Shinde said, “Wait till evening…” Pawar, in response to Shinde’s reply, said, “Sham tak unka samaj aayega (We will know about Shinde by evening), I will take it (oath), I will not wait.”
Shinde then said, “Dada (Ajit Pawar) has experience of taking (oath) both in the morning and evening.” This elicted laughter from all those present at the press conference. In the year 2019, Pawar had taken oath as the Deputy Chief Minister with Fadnavis as the Chief Minister in an early morning ceremony at Raj Bhavan.
The 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Election witnessed a resounding victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Mahayuti alliance, which secured a landslide win with 235 seats out of 288. The results marked a significant milestone for the BJP, which emerged as the single-largest party with 132 seats. The Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party also recorded notable gains, securing 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
While, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) suffered a major setback with Congress winning just 16 seats. Its alliance partner, Shiv Sena (UBT), won 20 seats, while the NCP (Sharad Pawar faction) secured only 10 seats.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-set-to-be-sworn-in-today-as-maharashtra-cm-eknath-shinde-ajit-pawar-deputy-cms/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: RBI raises UPI lite wallet limit to Rs 5,000
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 17:08:49 +0000
Content: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has increased the wallet limit for UPI Lite from ₹2,000 to ₹5,000. The new guidelines, announced on Wednesday, also raised the upper transaction limit under the offline framework from ₹500 to ₹1,000 per transaction.
According to the RBI’s circular, the revised limits are effective immediately, enabling users to make higher-value transactions conveniently while maintaining the simplicity and security of UPI Lite. “The enhanced limits for UPI Lite shall be ₹1,000 per transaction, with ₹5,000 being the total limit at any point in time,” the circular said.
Previously, the offline framework permitted a maximum of ₹500 per transaction and a total limit of ₹2,000 for payment instruments. The updated framework is expected to streamline digital payments for day-to-day purchases and provide a more robust and inclusive digital payment experience for consumers.
The RBI clarified that the changes have been implemented under the authority of Section 18, read with Section 10(2) of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. This initiative aligns with the central bank’s ongoing efforts to promote digital transactions while ensuring ease of use and enhanced security for consumers.
Earlier, in October 2024, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had announced an increase in transaction limits for UPI services during the monetary policy briefing, emphasizing the growing importance of digital payment platforms in India’s economy.
The updated limits come at a time when Unified Payments Interface (UPI) continues to set milestones in the digital payment space. In October 2024, UPI achieved a record-breaking 16.58 billion financial transactions in a single month.
Since its launch in 2016 by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), UPI has revolutionized the country’s payment system, integrating multiple bank accounts into a single mobile application for seamless fund transfers, peer-to-peer transactions, and merchant payments.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-raises-upi-lite-wallet-limit-to-rs-5000/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: “Trying to deepen our relationship with India,” says Bangladesh Press Secy ahead of FS Misri’s visit
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 15:33:02 +0000
Content: Bangladesh is set to host Indian Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri amid heightened tensions between the two nations, with Shafiqul Alam, Press Secretary to the Chief Advisor of Bangladesh’s interim government, Muhammad Yunus, emphasizing the intent to strengthen bilateral ties.
Alam expressed optimism about the upcoming discussions between the foreign secretaries of both nations, stating that the talks would focus on mutual interests and help bolster the relationship. He said, “We were looking forward to the Indian Foreign Secretary’s visit. Both sides are keen to discuss issues of mutual interest, and we hope these meetings will deepen ties between the two neighbors.”
Addressing the state of India-Bangladesh relations, Alam said, “Our relationship with India remains steady, and we are working to improve it further. Both nations are trying to deepen their ties, and we are hopeful that relations will grow stronger in the coming days and months.”
The Press Secretary’s comments come a day after Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, was summoned by Bangladesh’s Foreign Ministry following a protest attack on the premises of the Bangladesh acting High Commission in Agartala. During the meeting, Verma engaged with Riaz Hamidullah, acting Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh’s interim government, to discuss the incident.
Following the meeting, Verma reiterated India’s commitment to fostering a robust and cooperative relationship with Bangladesh. Speaking to reporters, he said, “India and Bangladesh share a wide-ranging and multifaceted relationship that cannot be defined by a single issue. We aim to build a stable, constructive, and mutually beneficial partnership.”
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/trying-to-deepen-our-relationship-with-india-says-bangladesh-press-secy-ahead-of-fs-misris-visit/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: Nepal’s Industry Minister Bhandari meets India’s Piyush Goyal to attract Indian investment
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:48:18 +0000
Content: Nepal’s Minister for Industry, Commerce, and Supplies, Damodar Bhandari, met India’s Minister for Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, in New Delhi on Monday to discuss matters of bilateral trade and investment.
During the meeting, Minister Bhandari urged Goyal to address the challenges posed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) requirements imposed on Nepali exports such as cement, plywood, and shoes.
The two ministers also held positive discussions on amending the Treaty of Transit to facilitate smoother trade operations. It was agreed to organize a Commerce Secretary-level meeting in Nepal soon to further advance cooperation in trade and transit.
Highlighting Nepal’s immense investment potential, Bhandari emphasized the country’s investor-friendly environment and urged Goyal to encourage Indian investors to explore opportunities in Nepal.
Minister Bhandari also met India’s Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri, to review progress on energy cooperation since their last meeting in August 2024. Discussions focused on ongoing and new infrastructure projects, including the signing of a B2B agreement between Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC).
The talks underscored strengthening energy ties between the two nations, with a focus on ensuring uninterrupted supply of petroleum, oil, and lubricants to Nepal. Both parties agreed to expedite the construction of the Siliguri-Jhapa and Amlekhgunj-Chitwan pipelines, along with associated terminals, to enhance cross-border energy connectivity.
Minister Puri invited Nepal to join the Global Biofuels Alliance to unlock its biofuels potential, signaling further avenues for cooperation in sustainable energy.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/nepals-industry-minister-bhandari-meets-indias-piyush-goyal-to-attract-indian-investment/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: Centre allocates Rs 1.03 lakh crore to rural schemes for the poor in current fiscal: Shivraj Chouhan
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:35:51 +0000
Content: Union Rural Development Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Wednesday that the Ministry has spent Rs 1.03 lakh crore on rural development and social welfare schemes so far in the current financial year, out of the total budget allocation of Rs 1.84 lakh crore.
“We are working tirelessly to fulfill the Prime Minister’s vision by connecting rural communities with employment opportunities and essential facilities,” Chouhan stated at a press conference.
The minister highlighted that under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G), a target of constructing 2.95 crore houses by March 2024 had been set. Of these, almost all have been sanctioned, and 2.67 crore houses have already been completed. Recognizing the program’s success and the ongoing demand for rural housing, the scheme has been extended to construct an additional 2 crore houses over the next five years at an estimated cost of over Rs 3.06 lakh crore.
To ensure no eligible family is excluded, the exclusion criteria have been relaxed. Conditions such as owning a mechanized fishing boat, refrigerator, or landline phone have been removed, while the income threshold for exclusion has been increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month.
Chouhan also explained that financial assistance for constructing these houses is being provided through various government schemes. Under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a 3% interest subvention is offered for projects up to Rs 2 crore, with a repayment period of seven years. Additionally, under the Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI) Scheme, a 33.33% subsidy is provided for storage infrastructure, and margin money requirements for PACS (Primary Agricultural Credit Societies) have been reduced from 20% to 10%.
Each house under PMAY-G includes basic amenities such as toilets, cooking gas connections, and electricity through integration with schemes like the Swachh Bharat Mission, Ujjwala Yojana, and Saubhagya Yojana. Beneficiaries also receive 90–95 days of wage support under MGNREGA for constructing their homes. Furthermore, under the Pradhan Mantri Surya Ghar Scheme, solar rooftop connections are provided to reduce electricity costs.
So far, 38 lakh houses have been allocated to 18 states under the new target, with Rs 10,668 crore already disbursed. States have been urged to release their share promptly and submit proposals for further installments.
Highlighting the efficiency of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mechanism, Chouhan noted that over 10 lakh beneficiaries received their first installment in one click, authorized by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an event in Bhubaneswar. On September 17, 2024, PM Modi also approved 15 lakh houses and released Rs 3,180 crore for over 10 lakh beneficiaries. Additionally, more than 26 lakh houses have been handed over to their owners.
The minister also emphasized the ongoing development under PMGSY-III (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana), with 6,614 km of roads approved between June 9 and December 2, 2024. Another 2,337 km of roads were sanctioned under the PM-Janman scheme, and over 68,000 Amrit Sarovars (water reservoirs) have been constructed or revived.
Highlighting the empowerment of rural women, Chouhan mentioned that over 1.15 crore women have become ‘Lakhpati Didis’ through self-help groups under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM).
The government is also set to revamp the Jan MGNREGA App to enhance transparency and gather citizen feedback on the scheme’s implementation. Provisions for socially disadvantaged groups—50% SC/ST, 15% minorities, and 33% women—remain integral, with special attention to manual scavengers, persons with disabilities, and female-headed households.
Chouhan reaffirmed the government’s commitment to addressing any shortcomings in MGNREGA and PMAY-G implementation and promised that additional funds would be allocated if the demand exceeds initial estimates.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/centre-allocates-rs-1-03-lakh-crore-to-rural-schemes-for-the-poor-in-current-fiscal-shivraj-chouhan/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: Crunch time in France as lawmakers look set to oust Barnier’s government
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 13:22:44 +0000
Content: French lawmakers are all but certain to oust the governmentwith a no-confidence motionon Wednesday, plunging the euro zone’s second-biggest economic power deeper into political turmoil.
Barring a last-minute surprise, Prime Minister Michel Barnier’s government will be France’s first to be forced out by a no-confidence vote in more than 60 years, at a time when the country is struggling to tame a massive budget deficit.
That would leave a hole at the heart of the European Union at a time when Germany is also weakened and in election mode, weeks before U.S. President-elect Donald Trump re-enters the White House.
In a TV interview on Tuesday, Barnier said he still believed his government could survive the vote, scheduled for the evening after a debate starting at 4 p.m. (1500 GMT).
But far-right National Rally (RN) chief Jordan Bardella confirmed on Wednesday that his party would vote to topple Barnier alongside left-wing parties.
He said Barnier’s optimism showed that the government was “completely out of touch with what is happening in the country”.
“This government is dangerous for my country,” he told France Inter radio. “We will vote for the no-confidence motion.”
Barnier’s interior minister,Bruno Retailleau, was downbeat.
“Nothing’s over until the vote but we can see we’re headed towards censure (of the government),” he told CNews.
President Emmanuel Macron, who won a second mandate in 2022, precipitated the crisis by calling a snap parliamentary election in June.
His term as president runs until mid-2027 and he cannot be forced out by parliament, but the RN and the hard left have already been saying he should resign as he faces his biggest crisis since the Yellow Vest popular unrest of 2018-2019.
Since Macron called the election, France’s CAC 40 .FCHI has dropped nearly 10% and is the heaviest loser among top EU economies. The single currency is down nearly 4%.
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE PUTS BID TO CUT BUDGET DEFICIT AT RISK
Political uncertainty is already hitting France’s services sector, a monthly survey showed.
“The positive signals … that were seen over the summer, partly due to the Olympics, are now a thing of the past,” Hamburg Commercial Bank economist Tariq Kamal Chaudhry said after seeing the HCOB purchasing managers’ index for France’s service sector.
Barnier’s draft budget had sought to cut the fiscal deficit, which is projected to exceed 6% of national output this year, with 60 billion euros ($63 billion) in tax hikes and spending cuts. It sought to drag the deficit down to 5% next year.
The caretaker government could propose emergency legislation to roll over spending limits and tax provisions from this year. But that would mean Barnier’s savings measures falling by the wayside.
Barnier says the consequences of voting him out will be catastrophic for state finances, but RN lawmaker Laure Lavalette told TF1 TV: “There is no reason for this to lead to major chaos. Don’t play with fears … it’s not all going to crumble.”
Bond investors are likely to spare France the dire financial “storm” Barnier has warned of, but the fallout from the political crisis will hurt businesses, consumers and taxpayers, economists and experts say.
“This is a slow-burning crisis which will lead to an ongoing widening of spreads and an ongoing deterioration of sovereign creditworthiness,” said Union Investment’s head of fixed income and FX, Christian Kopf, who is underweight on French debt.
“But for the time being, I do not see the ingredients for this to totally get out of hand and morph into an outright sovereign debt crisis.”
If the no-confidence vote passes, Macron may well ask Barnier to stay on in a caretaker role as it could take until next year to find a new prime minister.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/crunch-time-in-france-as-lawmakers-look-set-to-oust-barniers-government/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 07:35:50

Title: RBI hikes interest rates on NRI foreign currency deposits
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 10:22:03 +0000
Content: The RBI on Friday increased the interest rate ceilings on Foreign Currency Non-Resident Bank deposits or FCNR (B) deposits which will enable NRIs to earn more on their savings.
The move is aimed at attracting more foreign capital at a time when the Indian rupee has come under pressure as foreign investors have been pulling money out of the Indian stock markets resulting in hot money outflows.
FCNR(B) deposits are accounts where Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) can hold their earnings in foreign currencies like USD or GBP, protecting them from exchange rate fluctuations.
“In order to attract more capital inflows, RBI has decided to increase the interest rate ceilings on FCNR (B) deposits. Accordingly, with effect from today (December 6, 2024), banks are permitted to raise fresh FCNR(B) deposits of 1 year to less than 3 years maturity at rates not exceeding ARR plus 400 bps and deposits with maturity between 3 to 5 years at rates not exceeding ARR plus 500 bps. This relaxation will be available till March 31, 2025,” an RBI statement said.
Until now, interest rates on Foreign Currency Non-Resident Bank (FCNR(B)) deposits were subject to ceilings of Overnight Alternative Reference Rate (ARR) for the respective currency/swap, plus 250 basis points for deposits of 1 year to less than 3 years maturity and overnight ARR plus 350 basis points for deposits of 3 years and above and up to 5 years maturity, according to an RBI statement.
Banks have now been allowed to offer higher interest across the tenors.
The RBI has also decided to move ahead with the introduction of the Secured Overnight Rupee Rate (SORR), a benchmark based on the secured money markets.
Financial Benchmarks India Ltd (FBIL) is being requested to take the proposal forward.
The proposal is being taken up in line with the recommendation of the RBI’s Committee on the MIBOR Benchmark.
The Reserve Bank had set up the Committee on the MIBOR Benchmark headed by Ramanathan Subramanian to review the rupee interest rate benchmarks in the country, especially the usage of Mumbai Interbank Outright Rate (MIBOR), and to examine the need for transition to new benchmarks. The Committee recommended several important measures to further develop the interest rate derivative market and improve the credibility of interest rate benchmarks. The Report of the Committee was published on the RBI’s website inviting comments from members of the public. The Reserve Bank has examined the recommendations of the Committee as well as the feedback received.
“The other recommendations of the Committee are under consideration,” the RBI statement said.
(IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-hikes-interest-rates-on-nri-foreign-currency-deposits/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: Turkey, Iran and Russia to meet in Doha on Saturday to discuss Syria, Turkish source says
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 10:05:17 +0000
Content: The foreign ministers of Turkey, Iran, and Russia will meet in Doha on Saturday to discuss a lightning rebel advance in Syria, a Turkish diplomatic source said on Friday.
Syrian rebels have made their biggest battlefield gains since the civil war began 13 years ago, striking a devastating blow to President Bashar al-Assad.
After years of being locked behind frozen frontlines, the rebels captured the main northern city of Aleppo last week before pushing as far south as the centre of Hama, taking the strategic central city for the first time.
Turkey, Russia and Iran have regularly held talks on Syria’s future in a trilateral format as part of what is known as the Astana peace process. While NATO member Turkey backs the political and armed opposition, Russia and Iran support Assad.
The source said the three ministers were expected to meet on the sidelines of the Doha Forum on Saturday within the framework of the Astana process, but did not provide further information.
On Monday, Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan, speaking alongside Iranian counterpart Abbas Araqchi after their talks in Ankara, said that a new effort would be made to revive the Astana process.
Since the start of the renewed conflict, Ankara has called on Assad to engage with the Syrian people for a political solution. It has denied any involvement in the rebels’ operation and said it did not want to see a new migrant wave heading toward its borders.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/turkey-iran-and-russia-to-meet-in-doha-on-saturday-to-discuss-syria-turkish-source-says/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: FII selling slows in November 2024 as Indian markets stabilize after October fall: report
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 09:43:17 +0000
Content: Foreign Institutional Investor (FII) outflows from Indian markets saw a significant reduction in November 2024, following a steep market correction in October. The Nifty 50 index had experienced a sharp 6 percent decline in October, closing 8 percent lower than its all-time highs. According to a report by JM Financials, this slowdown in FII selling indicates a stabilization in Indian markets.
November proved to be a calmer month for trading, with the benchmark index largely remaining flat. FII activity reflected this stabilization, as the intense selling pressure of October subsided significantly.
FII outflows dropped to Rs 182 billion (USD 2.2 billion) in November, a stark decline from Rs 919 billion (USD 10.9 billion) in October. The month was marked by a significant shift in investor sentiment, with a “tale of two halves.” During the first half of November, FIIs remained net sellers, with outflows of Rs 195 billion (USD 2.3 billion), but by the second half, they turned net buyers, bringing in Rs 13 billion (USD 159 million).
This shift was reinforced in the last seven days of the month, with FIIs recording net inflows of Rs 52.6 billion (USD 619 million).
Sector-wise, FII flows exhibited notable variations. The Oil and Gas sector saw the largest outflows for the second consecutive month, at USD 1.6 billion, followed by the Auto sector with USD 884 million in outflows. Telecom (USD 601 million) and FMCG (USD 167 million) also faced significant selling activity.
In contrast, sectors like Information Technology (IT), Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance (BFSI), and Realty attracted considerable inflows. IT led with inflows of USD 653 million, followed by BFSI at USD 296 million and Realty at USD 244 million. These inflows highlight investor interest in sectors perceived to offer resilience or growth potential.
FII shareholding in Indian equities inched up slightly to 16.1 percent in November 2024, from 16 percent in October, which marked the lowest level in 12 years. However, this figure remains lower year-on-year compared to 16.8 percent in November 2023. FII Equity Assets under Custody (AUC) also showed an improvement, rising to Rs 71.9 trillion at the end of November from Rs 71.1 trillion in October, signaling renewed investor confidence in the Indian market.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/fii-selling-slows-in-november-2024-as-indian-markets-stabilize-after-october-fall-report/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: PM Modi reiterates commitment to Bhutan’s development, discusses key areas of cooperation
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 03:21:04 +0000
Content: The King of Bhutan, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held discussions during the King’s visit, with a focus on enhancing bilateral cooperation and addressing regional and global issues of mutual interest.
During the talks on Thursday, PM Modi reaffirmed India’s commitment to its enduring friendship and cooperation with Bhutan, ensuring support for Bhutan’s socio-economic development.
The two leaders also expressed satisfaction with the significant progress made since their last meeting in March 2024 and welcomed the regular high-level visits and consultations covering diverse sectors of cooperation.
The King of Bhutan Wangchuck, and the Queen of Bhutan, Jetsun Pema Wangchuck, are on an official visit to India from December 5-6. They are accompanied by the Minister for Energy and Natural Resources, Gem Tshering, and senior officials Bhutan government. They arrived in New Delhi on Thursday morning and were received by EAM S Jaishankar at the airport in New Delhi.
“During the visit, the King of Bhutan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held discussions covering the entire gamut of bilateral cooperation and regional and global issues of mutual interest. External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar and senior officials called on The King of Bhutan,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a press release.
The leaders of both nations expressed satisfaction with the significant progress made since their last meeting in March 2024 and welcomed the regular high-level visits and consultations covering diverse sectors of cooperation. They positively assessed the expanding partnership between the two countries, including in areas of trade and economic connectivity, infrastructure, energy, skill development, education, health, cultural heritage, capacity building, sports, youth exchanges, digital economy, e-mobility, space technology, environment conservation, and people-to-people contacts.
Wangchuck and PM Modi expressed satisfaction at the excellent state of bilateral relations and reaffirmed their commitment to further strengthen these exemplary relations. Wangchuck conveyed appreciation for the invaluable support that the Government of India provides for Bhutan’s socio-economic development.
PM Modi reaffirmed India’s abiding commitment to its enduring bonds of friendship and cooperation with Bhutan and reiterated continued and full support to the socio-economic development in Bhutan based on the priorities of the Royal Government and as per the vision of Bhutan’s King, the MEA said.
The Bhutanese side thanked the Indian government for stepping up the development support for Bhutan under the 13th Five Year Plan (2024-29) and India’s support for RGoB’s Economic Stimulus Programme, the release added
Meanwhile, Wangchuck shared with PM Modi the progress in the implementation of his vision for the Gelephu Mindfulness City Special Administrative Region, and how India and Bhutan can work together on the project for the betterment of the two peoples and the region. PM Modi reassured Wangchuck of India’s continued support for the Gelephu Mindfulness City project, which will bring prosperity and well-being to Bhutan and also the border areas, and further strengthen economic and investment linkages between the two countries.
Reaffirming their commitment to strengthen the mutually beneficial cooperation as elaborated in the Joint Vision Statement on India-Bhutan Energy Partnership released during PM Modi’s visit to Bhutan in March 2024, the leaders reviewed recent progress in strategic partnerships in the energy sector, including non-hydro renewable energy between Indian and Bhutanese entities through access to Indian financing and energy markets.
They expressed satisfaction that the 1020 MW Punatshangchhu-II hydropower project was nearing completion, and looked forward to its commissioning in the near future. The leaders agreed on the need for early conclusion of the Punatsangchhu-I hydro power project. The two sides reiterated the importance of cooperation in the hydropower sector, and their commitment to advancing it, including through finalising modalities urgently for new projects, including reservoir hydro projects, the MEA release said.
The two leaders also expressed satisfaction over the opening of the Integrated Check Post at Darranga, Assam, which can boost tourism and economic activity in eastern Bhutan and the adjoining border areas of Assam.
They also noted with satisfaction that several initiatives agreed upon during earlier meetings, such as cross-border connectivity and infrastructure projects, are progressing steadily, including establishment of two cross border rail links and boosting digital connectivity. Both sides noted the recent decisions taken for further improving bilateral trade and commerce.
The leaders welcomed the progress made in the space sector, particularly in implementation of the Joint Plan of Action for cooperation and expressed satisfaction on increased collaboration in the field of education, with emphasis on STEM disciplines, the MEA added.
India and Bhutan enjoy unique ties of friendship and cooperation, characterized by mutual understanding, trust and exceptional cooperation at all levels. The bilateral discussions were held in a spirit of profound friendship, and reflected the strong historical ties, goodwill and understanding that exist between the two countries.
A day before, Jaishankar called on the Bhutan King and assured India’s full support for the development goals of Bhutan. During the meeting, Jaishankar and Wangchuck discussed the steady progress that the India-Bhutan partnership is making. (ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/pm-modi-reiterates-commitment-to-bhutans-development-discusses-key-areas-of-cooperation/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: Devendra Fadnavis sworn in as Maharashtra Chief Minister
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 13:15:23 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in a grand ceremony held at Azad Maidan, Mumbai. Governor CP Radhakrishnan administered the oath of office to Fadnavis, marking the beginning of his historic new term.
The event was attended by a host of prominent leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Chief Ministers from several states, such as Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Bhupendra Patel (Gujarat), and Pushkar Singh Dhami (Uttarakhand), also witnessed the occasion.
Adding a touch of glamour to the ceremony, cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar and Bollywood stars Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, and Madhuri Dixit were present to celebrate the political milestone.
Fadnavis, born on July 22, 1970, in Nagpur, comes from a middle-class family. He holds degrees in law, business management, and project management, which have contributed to his astute political acumen. His political journey began in 1992 when he was elected as a councillor in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, a position he held for two consecutive terms before advancing to serve as an MLA for five terms.
From 2014 to 2019, Fadnavis served as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, becoming the second-youngest to hold the position after Sharad Pawar. During his tenure, he oversaw major projects, including the Samruddhi Expressway, the Police Digitisation Project, and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Krishi Sanman Scheme, which bolstered the state’s infrastructure and welfare initiatives.
Fadnavis briefly held the Chief Minister’s position during the political turmoil in 2019 when the Shiv Sena broke its alliance with the BJP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government with the Congress and NCP.
In the 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Elections, the BJP-led Mahayuti alliance secured a resounding victory, winning 235 seats. The BJP emerged as the single largest party with 132 seats, while its allies, the Shiv Sena and NCP, secured 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
The MVA alliance suffered a significant defeat, with Congress managing only 16 seats, Shiv Sena (UBT) securing 20, and the Sharad Pawar faction of the NCP winning just 10 seats.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-sworn-in-as-maharashtra-chief-minister/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: EAM Jaishankar reiterates India’s support for two-state solution, explains abstention from UN resolutions on Gaza conflict
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 12:41:22 +0000
Content: External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reiterated India’s firm support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict, emphasizing the importance of addressing terrorism and hostage-taking in global discourse.
Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Jaishankar defended India’s decision to abstain from certain United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) resolutions on the Gaza conflict, stating that these resolutions failed to capture the full scope of the situation.
Jaishankar clarified India’s stance in response to TMC MP Saket Gokhale’s inquiry, asserting, “We support the two-state solution and have been public and unambiguous about it. There should be no confusion regarding our position.”
When asked about the International Criminal Court’s (ICC) arrest warrants against Israeli and Hamas leaders, Jaishankar noted that India is not an ICC member. “India decided not to join the ICC after thorough deliberation. Therefore, its decisions are not binding on us, and we have not taken a formal position on this matter,” he said.
The minister also highlighted India’s longstanding humanitarian support for Palestine. He detailed contributions to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), adding a significant increase in annual aid from $1 million to $5 million under the current government. Additionally, he mentioned the provision of over 165 metric tons of medicines and other supplies to Palestine and Lebanon in recent years.
Regarding Israel’s ban on UNRWA, Jaishankar confirmed India’s unwavering commitment to its contributions, saying, “We continue to stand by our decision and have released the latest tranche of support to UNRWA.”
Explaining India’s abstention from some UNGA resolutions, Jaishankar emphasized that these lacked balance and failed to address critical aspects such as the October 7 Hamas attack, terrorism, and hostage-taking. “As a country that has suffered from terrorism, India cannot support resolutions that underplay such acts. Resolutions must be well-drafted, balanced, and reflect the entirety of the situation,” he said.
Jaishankar reiterated India’s condemnation of terrorism and hostage-taking while advocating for adherence to humanitarian law and minimizing civilian casualties. He stressed India’s call for a ceasefire and an end to violence in the region, adding that India’s position remains consistent and principled.
The Gaza conflict escalated after Hamas launched an attack on Israel on October 7, 2023, prompting a large-scale Israeli counter-offensive. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first global leaders to condemn Hamas’ actions, while also urging for a ceasefire and the unconditional release of hostages. India continues to advocate for the two-state solution as the pathway to resolving the long-standing conflict.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/eam-jaishankar-reiterates-indias-support-for-two-state-solution-explains-abstention-from-un-resolutions-on-gaza-conflict/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: The fight for joy Bangla: How India helped Bangladesh achieve independence
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 10:22:10 +0000
Content: Pakistan, created in 1947 after the partition of British India, was a nation seemingly destined for further division. Many analysts considered it a geographical absurdity, a loose amalgamation of two separate territories 1,000 miles apart. Beyond sharing a Muslim majority, West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now known as Bangladesh) had little in common.
One of the most significant differences between the two regions was language, which became a major source of identity problems and fuelled Bengali nationalism among the people of East Pakistan.
While people in West Pakistan spoke Urdu, the main language in East Pakistan was Bengali. In December 1947, students at the University of Dhaka protested, demanding that Bengali be recognized as one of Pakistan’s official languages. This marked the beginning of the language war between East and West Pakistan. Pakistan’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, responded by visiting Dhaka in March 1948 to deliver a stern message: Urdu would be the only official language of Pakistan. Moreover, leaders who spoke Bengali in the East Pakistan assembly were warned they could be tried for treason. Ultimately, West Pakistan imposed Urdu as the sole national language across both regions.
In response, the Bhasha Andolan (Language Movement) began in East Pakistan in 1952. This movement witnessed the deaths of many activists, politicians, and civilians due to atrocities committed by the West Pakistan-led regional regime. A key outcome of the language movement was the establishment of the Awami League in 1955, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
In 1956, Pakistan was established as an Islamic Republic with a new constitution. The country that year accepted Urdu and Bengali as official languages. In 1958, a military coup led by General Muhammad Ayub Khan abrogated that constitution.
The other big difference between the West and East Pakistan was the culture being followed by its people. Speaking a different language than West Pakistan, the people of East Pakistan followed a single ethnicity, Bengali, with a rich past. On the other hand, West Pakistan was a societal mix of people from different origins, including Punjab, Sindh, Baluchistan, and Pashtun people from its border areas, the North-West Frontier Province. Culturally, the people in East Pakistan had a stronger sense of belongingness than those in West Pakistan.
Despite these big differences, there could have been a united Pakistan based on religious similarity if both territories were treated equally by the country’s political leadership. However, the united Pakistan failed miserably here. The two territories, separated by a thousand miles, with different languages spoken and cultures followed, were ruled by a unilateral political leadership from West Pakistan.
The top political lineage under Jinnah that united Pakistan followed was largely from West Pakistan only. Also, its military wing leadership, the army, the air force, and the navy were based in West Pakistan only.
These disparities manifested in the repercussions felt by East Pakistan from 1947 until its liberation in 1971 as Bangladesh. The West Pakistani leadership treated East Pakistan as a colony, extracting benefits while denying it the rights and resources it deserved.
EAST PAKISTAN WAS MORE PROSPEROUS THAN WEST PAKISTAN
According to the 1951 Pakistan Census, East Pakistan had a population of 42 million, exceeding West Pakistan’s 33.7 million. Geographically, East Pakistan was a riverine territory with ample rainfall, making it more prosperous. Its fertile and productive lands stood in contrast to West Pakistan, which, aside from Punjab, was largely dry with barren areas.
Moreover, a study titled “The Struggle in Bangladesh,” published in the Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars, indicates that in the initial years, East Pakistan’s GDP surpassed that of West Pakistan. Educationally, East Pakistan also had an advantage.

Initially, in 1949–50, East Pakistan’s GDP was 13,130 million rupees, more than West Pakistan’s 11,830 million rupees. In education, East Pakistan had 29,633 primary schools in 1947, compared to just 8,413 in West Pakistan. Similarly, East Pakistan had 50 colleges, while West Pakistan had 40.
WEST PAKISTAN’S COLONY
Despite East Pakistan’s higher GDP, better educational levels, and stable cultural heritage, data analysis reveals that West Pakistan monopolized industrialization and other benefits by installing a lame-duck government in East Pakistan.
East Pakistan was the primary source of jute, united Pakistan’s key export commodity. Logistically, industrial units for cotton textiles should have been developed there, but the country’s leadership chose to establish them in West Pakistan. Economic institutions and infrastructure developments, such as seaports, railways, and roads essential for promoting industrial growth further, were largely concentrated in West Pakistan only.
Conversely, East Pakistan experienced limited development, primarily aimed at supporting industries located in West Pakistan, according to the study. Furthermore, most industries in East Pakistan were developed by industrialists based in West Pakistan. Just 11% of industries were owned by Bengalis, making East Pakistan a labour hub for West Pakistan.
The deteriorating situation of East Pakistan over the next two decades reflects this exploitation. While East Pakistan was once more prosperous than West Pakistan, by 1970, the situation had reversed entirely.

Data from the study reveal that by 1968–69, West Pakistan’s GDP exceeded East Pakistan’s by 34%, and its per capita income was 62% higher. In united Pakistan’s first and second Five-Year Plans, 68% of the allocations went to West Pakistan, slightly reduced to 64% in the third plan. Pakistan’s economy largely depended on foreign assistance, of which 70% to 80% benefited West Pakistan. Although East Pakistan contributed up to 70% of Pakistan’s export earnings, 75% of imports were directed to West Pakistan.
CALL FOR SELF-DETERMINATION
These factors, language suppression, cultural differences, economic exploitation, mass arrests, killings, disappearances, and colonial treatment, left East Pakistanis facing an uncertain future after two decades of hostility.
In the 1954 regional elections, a coalition known as the United Front defeated the Muslim League, which had been based in West Pakistan and had ruled East Pakistan until then. In February 1966, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of the Awami League presented his Six-Point Charter to the then-military ruler of Pakistan, Field Marshal Ayub Khan, demanding autonomy and greater control over East Pakistan’s economic affairs. These Six Points became central to Bengali nationalism and eventually transformed into a liberation movement following the 1970 general elections in Pakistan.
1970 PAKISTAN ELECTION: A TURNING POINT – EAST PAKISTAN’S CALL FOR INDEPENDENCE
Pakistan conducted its first general election on December 7, 1970, which is regarded as the most transparent election in the country’s history, according to Geo News, a major Pakistani news platform. The main contenders were Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), based in West Pakistan, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s Awami League, based in East Pakistan. The Awami League achieved a landslide victory, winning 170 seats, while the PPP secured only 81.
Despite the Awami League’s clear mandate to govern all of Pakistan, the country’s military ruler, General Yahya Khan, and the PPP’s Bhutto opposed this outcome. They dismissed the election results and imposed martial law, denying the Awami League its rightful leadership.
This action led to widespread protests and riots in East Pakistan. In response, Sheikh Mujib initiated a civil disobedience movement. On March 7, 1971, the Awami League mobilized 50,000 Bengalis to start a peaceful protest in Dhaka. However, on March 25, 1971, Sheikh Mujib was arrested and airlifted to West Pakistan with the launch of Operation Searchlight.
OPERATION SEARCHLIGHT
Following Sheikh Mujib’s declaration of independence for East Pakistan, West Pakistan launched a brutal crackdown on Bengalis. Operation Searchlight, initiated by West Pakistan on March 25, 1971, stands as one of the most horrific state-run military operations in history. According to various investigative estimates, including the Russian newspaper Pravda, approximately 3 million East Pakistanis were murdered by Pakistani troops and supporting militias.
In the 1970 general election, West Pakistan-based parties failed to win any seats in East Pakistan, underscoring the widespread support for the Awami League and its pro-independence stance among civilians, police, and security forces in East Pakistan. Consequently, West Pakistan’s troops and supporting radical militias targeted these Bengali-speaking populations across the region.
Deploying hundreds of thousands of troops across Dhaka and throughout East Bengal, supported by air and naval power, the main targets were Awami League politicians, military personnel, East Bengal police, and Bengali-speaking civilians.
An analytical report published in the Dhaka Tribune indicates that one of Operation Searchlight’s objectives was to disarm and arrest Bengali soldiers and policemen serving in East Pakistan. Another aim was to attack Hindu-majority areas of Dhaka. On the night of March 25, 1971, casualty figures in Dhaka alone reached approximately 35,000.
During the nine months of the operation, hundreds of thousands of Bengali women were subjected to rape. According to a report in the Smithsonian, around 400,000 women underwent late-term abortions, although the actual number is believed to be much higher.
REFUGEES IN INDIA
The brutal crackdown compelled millions of Bangladeshis to flee to India. By May 1971, India was hosting 1.5 million refugees, a number that swelled to around 10 million by December 1971, making it the largest refugee crisis in the modern world. Internally, the military operation displaced approximately 30 million people within Bangladesh.
This massive influx placed a significant burden on India. Nevertheless, the country stepped forward to assist, despite lacking domestic laws to manage refugees and not being a signatory to the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention or its 1967 protocol. India established 825 refugee camps across seven states, with 19 central camps capable of accommodating up to 50,000 refugees each.
ECONOMIC BURDEN
The economic burden was significant. India had to reassess its Fourth Five-Year Plan. The 1971–72 Budget stated, “The country’s resources, physical as well as fiscal, were greatly strained by developments across the border, the influx of nearly ten million refugees and the outbreak of hostilities in December 1971.” 1 Despite these challenges, the economy responded effectively, as noted in the budget document.  
A World Bank assessment, based on 9 million refugees, estimated the direct cost to India at approximately US$700 million from April 1, 1971, to March 31, 1972, which equates to around US$5.5 billion today. India managed this expenditure largely through internal resources. According to a CIA document from March 1972, released in 2010, the Indian government spent about 4% of its planned central government expenditure for FY1971 on refugee care.
INDIA’S STAND
India supported Sheikh Mujib’s call for independence but initially refrained from participating in the war. Instead, it provided moral and material support to the independence movement. On April 17, 1971, a provisional government of Bangladesh was formed and relocated to Calcutta as the “Bangladesh Government in Exile.”
Meanwhile, the freedom fighters of East Pakistan formed the Mukti Bahini, an armed resistance movement against the West Pakistani military and supporting militias. Comprising members of the Bengali military, paramilitary forces, police, and civilians, these fighters engaged in guerrilla warfare.
India’s support bolstered their efforts. The geographical separation of 1,000 miles of Indian territory between West and East Pakistan meant that Pakistan could not easily reinforce its military presence in East Pakistan with additional air and naval power.
West Pakistan had previously exhibited hostility towards India, notably in the conflicts of 1947 and the 1965 war, which it lost. Its actions in East Pakistan heightened diplomatic tensions and prompted a military buildup in India.
The tipping point occurred on December 3, 1971, when Pakistan launched pre-emptive air strikes on Indian airfields. This act of aggression compelled India to formally enter the war, engaging its Army, Navy, and Air Force in a coordinated response to both the humanitarian crisis and threats to its national sovereignty. Before this, India had adopted a restrained approach, engaging in diplomatic efforts and appealing to West Pakistani leaders to create safe corridors for refugees to return. These appeals were ignored.
THE QUICK END
India’s entry into the 1971 war was driven by the humanitarian crisis and direct threats to its national security. By launching joint military operations with the Mukti Bahini, effective coordination and intelligence sharing were achieved, significantly disrupting Pakistani military efforts. Through a series of strategic offensives, the joint forces rapidly overran West Pakistan’s military presence throughout Dhaka and East Pakistan.
On December 16, 1971, Lieutenant General A.A.K. Niazi of Pakistan unconditionally surrendered to Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora of India, along with 93,000 troops, marking one of the largest surrenders since World War II. The war officially ended with India’s unilateral ceasefire on December 17.
WHY INDIA’S ENGAGEMENT WAS NECESSARY FOR A JOY BANGLA MOVEMENT
The success of the “Joy Bangla” movement on December 16, 1971, could only be possible with India’s commitment to the cause. With the onset of Operation Searchlight, India opened its borders to refugees, providing massive relief operations while simultaneously engaging in diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. Military intervention by India was the last resort.
The military intervention ultimately helped realize the goals of the “Joy Bangla” movement.
Twenty-three years of suppression, from 1947 to 1970, with West Pakistan ruling East Pakistan through military involvement, left the eastern territory with a strong desire for independence, an aspiration difficult to achieve in an economy controlled by West Pakistani industrialists and a polity dominated by a West Pakistan-based military ruler allied with exploitative politicians.
The increasing number of refugees in India proved the fact that there was no internal security structure and local and regional administration available for them to take over the West Pakistan-led apparatus.
Over ten million refugees fled to India in ten months, while thirty million were internally displaced. The refugee headcount included Bengali military wing officials, soldiers, and police personnel. According to the Bangladesh High Commission in London, thousands of families of officials, soldiers, and activists from East Pakistan were interned in West Pakistan. Killings and rapes became daily events of horror to be observed. India’s daily refugee count surged from 17,000 to 60,000, with numbers continuing to rise.
The freedom fighters of East Pakistan had the courage and will to fight for independence, but they lacked the strength of a coordinated war strategy and the full complement of military resources—army, air force, navy, arms, and ammunition—to defeat West Pakistan’s full-fledged military. They had to fight a country’s army that had exposure to past war experiences, something they didn’t have, as East Pakistan was not the war theatre of the 1965 India-Pakistan war. India’s decision to join the war after Pakistan’s attack on Indian territory proved to be the turning point, helping Bangladesh achieve a goal that once seemed unachievable.
Had the Mukti Bahini not received external support, Operation Searchlight could have seriously affected the East Pakistan freedom movement and its hopes to break the colonial shackles of West Pakistan.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/the-fight-for-joy-bangla-how-india-helped-bangladesh-achieve-independence/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: Devendra Fadnavis set to be sworn in today as Maharashtra CM, Eknath Shinde, Ajit Pawar Deputy CMs
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 04:45:20 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis will take oath as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde along with NCP’s Ajit Pawar will take the oath as Deputy Chief Ministers in the new cabinet, sources said.
The oath-taking ceremony will take place at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan and will see the participation of several NDA Chief Ministers and leaders. Ending the long-drawn suspense over who would get the top job, Fadnavis, Shinde, and Pawar met Governor CP Radhakrishnan to stake their claim to form the MahaYuti government.
After meeting the Governor, Fadnavis said, “The swearing-in ceremony of the new government will be held tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I met Eknath Shinde and requested him to join us in this government, as it is the wish of MahaYuti workers…We will fulfill the promises made to the people of Maharashtra.”
It will be Fadnavis’ third term in the top post after being unanimously elected as the Leader of the Maharashtra BJP Legislative Party on Wednesday. The decision came after days of speculation and political manoeuvring as Eknath Shinde wanted to become the Chief Minister of Maharashtra. However, the BJP, refused to budge and later, Shinde said he would back PM Modi’s pick.
Meanwhile, Eknath Shinde on Wednesday expressed his satisfaction with the two-and a-half years of the Mahayuti government in Maharashtra, ahead of the swearing-in of Fadnavis as Chief Minister.
“I am very happy with the completion of two-and-a-half years. The work done by our government–the MahaYuti government–by the three of us and our team in the last 2.5 years is remarkable. It will be written in golden letters in history. We are proud to have taken such significant decisions,” said Shinde.
Shinde was accompanied by Fadnavis and NCP chief Ajit Pawar at a press conference. Addressing the media, Pawar emphasised their commitment to effective governance. “We will leave no stone unturned in running the government. Party activities will be managed by BJP chief Chandrashekhar Bawankule and NCP’s Sunil Tatkare,” he said.
There was also some light-hearted banter during the press conference. Asked whether he and Ajit Pawar would take oath on December 5 as Fadnavis’ deputies, Shinde said, “Wait till evening…” Pawar, in response to Shinde’s reply, said, “Sham tak unka samaj aayega (We will know about Shinde by evening), I will take it (oath), I will not wait.”
Shinde then said, “Dada (Ajit Pawar) has experience of taking (oath) both in the morning and evening.” This elicted laughter from all those present at the press conference. In the year 2019, Pawar had taken oath as the Deputy Chief Minister with Fadnavis as the Chief Minister in an early morning ceremony at Raj Bhavan.
The 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Election witnessed a resounding victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Mahayuti alliance, which secured a landslide win with 235 seats out of 288. The results marked a significant milestone for the BJP, which emerged as the single-largest party with 132 seats. The Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party also recorded notable gains, securing 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
While, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) suffered a major setback with Congress winning just 16 seats. Its alliance partner, Shiv Sena (UBT), won 20 seats, while the NCP (Sharad Pawar faction) secured only 10 seats.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-set-to-be-sworn-in-today-as-maharashtra-cm-eknath-shinde-ajit-pawar-deputy-cms/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: RBI raises UPI lite wallet limit to Rs 5,000
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 17:08:49 +0000
Content: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has increased the wallet limit for UPI Lite from ₹2,000 to ₹5,000. The new guidelines, announced on Wednesday, also raised the upper transaction limit under the offline framework from ₹500 to ₹1,000 per transaction.
According to the RBI’s circular, the revised limits are effective immediately, enabling users to make higher-value transactions conveniently while maintaining the simplicity and security of UPI Lite. “The enhanced limits for UPI Lite shall be ₹1,000 per transaction, with ₹5,000 being the total limit at any point in time,” the circular said.
Previously, the offline framework permitted a maximum of ₹500 per transaction and a total limit of ₹2,000 for payment instruments. The updated framework is expected to streamline digital payments for day-to-day purchases and provide a more robust and inclusive digital payment experience for consumers.
The RBI clarified that the changes have been implemented under the authority of Section 18, read with Section 10(2) of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. This initiative aligns with the central bank’s ongoing efforts to promote digital transactions while ensuring ease of use and enhanced security for consumers.
Earlier, in October 2024, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had announced an increase in transaction limits for UPI services during the monetary policy briefing, emphasizing the growing importance of digital payment platforms in India’s economy.
The updated limits come at a time when Unified Payments Interface (UPI) continues to set milestones in the digital payment space. In October 2024, UPI achieved a record-breaking 16.58 billion financial transactions in a single month.
Since its launch in 2016 by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), UPI has revolutionized the country’s payment system, integrating multiple bank accounts into a single mobile application for seamless fund transfers, peer-to-peer transactions, and merchant payments.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-raises-upi-lite-wallet-limit-to-rs-5000/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: “Trying to deepen our relationship with India,” says Bangladesh Press Secy ahead of FS Misri’s visit
Publication Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2024 15:33:02 +0000
Content: Bangladesh is set to host Indian Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri amid heightened tensions between the two nations, with Shafiqul Alam, Press Secretary to the Chief Advisor of Bangladesh’s interim government, Muhammad Yunus, emphasizing the intent to strengthen bilateral ties.
Alam expressed optimism about the upcoming discussions between the foreign secretaries of both nations, stating that the talks would focus on mutual interests and help bolster the relationship. He said, “We were looking forward to the Indian Foreign Secretary’s visit. Both sides are keen to discuss issues of mutual interest, and we hope these meetings will deepen ties between the two neighbors.”
Addressing the state of India-Bangladesh relations, Alam said, “Our relationship with India remains steady, and we are working to improve it further. Both nations are trying to deepen their ties, and we are hopeful that relations will grow stronger in the coming days and months.”
The Press Secretary’s comments come a day after Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Pranay Verma, was summoned by Bangladesh’s Foreign Ministry following a protest attack on the premises of the Bangladesh acting High Commission in Agartala. During the meeting, Verma engaged with Riaz Hamidullah, acting Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh’s interim government, to discuss the incident.
Following the meeting, Verma reiterated India’s commitment to fostering a robust and cooperative relationship with Bangladesh. Speaking to reporters, he said, “India and Bangladesh share a wide-ranging and multifaceted relationship that cannot be defined by a single issue. We aim to build a stable, constructive, and mutually beneficial partnership.”
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/trying-to-deepen-our-relationship-with-india-says-bangladesh-press-secy-ahead-of-fs-misris-visit/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-06 13:41:43

Title: Cabinet approves 85 new Kendriya Vidyalayas
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 16:39:03 +0000
Content: The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved the establishment of 85 new Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) under the Civil/Defence sector, along with the expansion of one existing Kendriya Vidyalaya in Shivamogga, Karnataka.
This expansion aims to meet the growing educational demands of Central Government employees’ children by adding two additional sections in all classes at KV Shivamogga.
The total estimated financial requirement for the establishment of these new schools and the expansion of the existing one is approximately Rs. 5872.08 crore, spread over a period of eight years from 2025-26. This includes capital expenditure of Rs. 2862.71 crore and operational costs of Rs. 3009.37 crore.
Currently, there are 1,256 functional Kendriya Vidyalayas across the country, including three schools abroad in Moscow, Kathmandu, and Tehran. These schools provide education to approximately 13.56 lakh students. With the addition of the 85 new KVs and the expansion of KV Shivamogga, an estimated 82,560 students will benefit from the enhanced capacity.
In total, 5,388 direct permanent employment opportunities will be created, including 33 new positions at the expanded Shivamogga school. The construction and related activities will also generate job opportunities for skilled and unskilled workers.
Kendriya Vidyalayas were originally established in 1962 to provide uniform and high-quality education to children of transferable Central Government and Defence employees. The scheme has since expanded to cater to a wider population, including children from remote and underserved areas.
As per the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, nearly all Kendriya Vidyalayas have been designated as PM Shri schools, demonstrating the government’s commitment to quality education.
The schools are renowned for their high academic standards, innovative teaching methods, and state-of-the-art infrastructure. Enrollment numbers have steadily increased, and the performance of KV students in the CBSE board exams consistently outperforms other educational systems.
The list of 86 new Kendriya Vidyalayas (85 new schools and 1 expanded school) has been finalized across various states, with key locations in Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, NCT of Delhi, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand.
These schools are expected to further strengthen the education system, benefiting children of Central Government employees and contributing to the country’s overall educational development.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/cabinet-approves-85-new-kendriya-vidyalayas/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: Hanle in Ladakh prime candidate for quantum communications tech: Indian researchers
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 14:30:48 +0000
Content: India’s unique geographical diversity could play a critical role in transmitting quantum signals into space for more efficient satellite-based quantum communications, researchers from Bengaluru’s Raman Research Institute (RRI) said on Friday.
Through meticulous analysis, RRI scientists evaluated open-source data from three of India’s premier observatory sites. They identified the Indian Astronomical Observatory (IAO) in Hanle, located in Ladakh’s remote high-altitude desert, as the prime candidate for hosting this revolutionary technology.
Hanle, known for its dry, cold desert conditions, experiences winter temperatures plunging to minus 25 to 30 degrees Celsius. The region also benefits from low levels of atmospheric water vapour and oxygen, making it ideal for quantum communication experiments.
“Hanle offers all the natural conditions necessary for setting up a ground station and enabling long-distance quantum communication,” said Professor Urbasi Sinha, head of the Quantum Information and Computing (QuIC) lab at RRI, an autonomous institute under the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India.
Satellite-based quantum communications, including quantum key distribution (QKD), represent a promising approach to achieving global-scale quantum networks. To implement these, atmospheric simulations for both uplink and downlink communications are critical, as is identifying practical locations for ground stations.
While similar studies have been carried out in Canada, Europe, and China, India’s geographical diversity—from the towering Himalayas to coastal plains, deserts, and tropical regions—adds unique value to this research.
Traditional satellite communication typically operates at frequencies in the MHz or GHz range, whereas quantum communication functions at much higher frequencies, measured in THz. The researchers worked with signals in the 370 THz band (810 nm wavelength) as outlined in their paper published in EPJ Quantum Technology by Springer Nature.
Using open-source data on temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, and other meteorological parameters, researchers evaluated three observatory sites: IAO Hanle, Mt Abu in Rajasthan, and Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES) in Nainital, Uttarakhand.
“India’s geographical diversity offers a vast and versatile template for quantum communication research that could be applied globally. This versatility could make our research invaluable for future quantum satellite projects worldwide,” Professor Sinha added.
Proposed satellites for secure quantum communication would operate in Low Earth Orbit (LEO), with altitudes of up to 500 km. Beacon signals would be used to track moving satellites and align them with corresponding telescopes. According to co-author Satya Ranjan Behera, the team’s proposed system involves a main signal at 810 nm, with uplink and downlink signals using 532 nm and 1550 nm wavelengths, respectively.
(Inputs from IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/hanle-in-ladakh-prime-candidate-for-quantum-communications-tech-indian-researchers/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: RBI hikes interest rates on NRI foreign currency deposits
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 10:22:03 +0000
Content: The RBI on Friday increased the interest rate ceilings on Foreign Currency Non-Resident Bank deposits or FCNR (B) deposits which will enable NRIs to earn more on their savings.
The move is aimed at attracting more foreign capital at a time when the Indian rupee has come under pressure as foreign investors have been pulling money out of the Indian stock markets resulting in hot money outflows.
FCNR(B) deposits are accounts where Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) can hold their earnings in foreign currencies like USD or GBP, protecting them from exchange rate fluctuations.
“In order to attract more capital inflows, RBI has decided to increase the interest rate ceilings on FCNR (B) deposits. Accordingly, with effect from today (December 6, 2024), banks are permitted to raise fresh FCNR(B) deposits of 1 year to less than 3 years maturity at rates not exceeding ARR plus 400 bps and deposits with maturity between 3 to 5 years at rates not exceeding ARR plus 500 bps. This relaxation will be available till March 31, 2025,” an RBI statement said.
Until now, interest rates on Foreign Currency Non-Resident Bank (FCNR(B)) deposits were subject to ceilings of Overnight Alternative Reference Rate (ARR) for the respective currency/swap, plus 250 basis points for deposits of 1 year to less than 3 years maturity and overnight ARR plus 350 basis points for deposits of 3 years and above and up to 5 years maturity, according to an RBI statement.
Banks have now been allowed to offer higher interest across the tenors.
The RBI has also decided to move ahead with the introduction of the Secured Overnight Rupee Rate (SORR), a benchmark based on the secured money markets.
Financial Benchmarks India Ltd (FBIL) is being requested to take the proposal forward.
The proposal is being taken up in line with the recommendation of the RBI’s Committee on the MIBOR Benchmark.
The Reserve Bank had set up the Committee on the MIBOR Benchmark headed by Ramanathan Subramanian to review the rupee interest rate benchmarks in the country, especially the usage of Mumbai Interbank Outright Rate (MIBOR), and to examine the need for transition to new benchmarks. The Committee recommended several important measures to further develop the interest rate derivative market and improve the credibility of interest rate benchmarks. The Report of the Committee was published on the RBI’s website inviting comments from members of the public. The Reserve Bank has examined the recommendations of the Committee as well as the feedback received.
“The other recommendations of the Committee are under consideration,” the RBI statement said.
(IANS)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/rbi-hikes-interest-rates-on-nri-foreign-currency-deposits/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: Turkey, Iran and Russia to meet in Doha on Saturday to discuss Syria, Turkish source says
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 10:05:17 +0000
Content: The foreign ministers of Turkey, Iran, and Russia will meet in Doha on Saturday to discuss a lightning rebel advance in Syria, a Turkish diplomatic source said on Friday.
Syrian rebels have made their biggest battlefield gains since the civil war began 13 years ago, striking a devastating blow to President Bashar al-Assad.
After years of being locked behind frozen frontlines, the rebels captured the main northern city of Aleppo last week before pushing as far south as the centre of Hama, taking the strategic central city for the first time.
Turkey, Russia and Iran have regularly held talks on Syria’s future in a trilateral format as part of what is known as the Astana peace process. While NATO member Turkey backs the political and armed opposition, Russia and Iran support Assad.
The source said the three ministers were expected to meet on the sidelines of the Doha Forum on Saturday within the framework of the Astana process, but did not provide further information.
On Monday, Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan, speaking alongside Iranian counterpart Abbas Araqchi after their talks in Ankara, said that a new effort would be made to revive the Astana process.
Since the start of the renewed conflict, Ankara has called on Assad to engage with the Syrian people for a political solution. It has denied any involvement in the rebels’ operation and said it did not want to see a new migrant wave heading toward its borders.
(Reuters)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/turkey-iran-and-russia-to-meet-in-doha-on-saturday-to-discuss-syria-turkish-source-says/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: FII selling slows in November 2024 as Indian markets stabilize after October fall: report
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 09:43:17 +0000
Content: Foreign Institutional Investor (FII) outflows from Indian markets saw a significant reduction in November 2024, following a steep market correction in October. The Nifty 50 index had experienced a sharp 6 percent decline in October, closing 8 percent lower than its all-time highs. According to a report by JM Financials, this slowdown in FII selling indicates a stabilization in Indian markets.
November proved to be a calmer month for trading, with the benchmark index largely remaining flat. FII activity reflected this stabilization, as the intense selling pressure of October subsided significantly.
FII outflows dropped to Rs 182 billion (USD 2.2 billion) in November, a stark decline from Rs 919 billion (USD 10.9 billion) in October. The month was marked by a significant shift in investor sentiment, with a “tale of two halves.” During the first half of November, FIIs remained net sellers, with outflows of Rs 195 billion (USD 2.3 billion), but by the second half, they turned net buyers, bringing in Rs 13 billion (USD 159 million).
This shift was reinforced in the last seven days of the month, with FIIs recording net inflows of Rs 52.6 billion (USD 619 million).
Sector-wise, FII flows exhibited notable variations. The Oil and Gas sector saw the largest outflows for the second consecutive month, at USD 1.6 billion, followed by the Auto sector with USD 884 million in outflows. Telecom (USD 601 million) and FMCG (USD 167 million) also faced significant selling activity.
In contrast, sectors like Information Technology (IT), Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance (BFSI), and Realty attracted considerable inflows. IT led with inflows of USD 653 million, followed by BFSI at USD 296 million and Realty at USD 244 million. These inflows highlight investor interest in sectors perceived to offer resilience or growth potential.
FII shareholding in Indian equities inched up slightly to 16.1 percent in November 2024, from 16 percent in October, which marked the lowest level in 12 years. However, this figure remains lower year-on-year compared to 16.8 percent in November 2023. FII Equity Assets under Custody (AUC) also showed an improvement, rising to Rs 71.9 trillion at the end of November from Rs 71.1 trillion in October, signaling renewed investor confidence in the Indian market.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/fii-selling-slows-in-november-2024-as-indian-markets-stabilize-after-october-fall-report/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: PM Modi reiterates commitment to Bhutan’s development, discusses key areas of cooperation
Publication Date: Fri, 06 Dec 2024 03:21:04 +0000
Content: The King of Bhutan, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held discussions during the King’s visit, with a focus on enhancing bilateral cooperation and addressing regional and global issues of mutual interest.
During the talks on Thursday, PM Modi reaffirmed India’s commitment to its enduring friendship and cooperation with Bhutan, ensuring support for Bhutan’s socio-economic development.
The two leaders also expressed satisfaction with the significant progress made since their last meeting in March 2024 and welcomed the regular high-level visits and consultations covering diverse sectors of cooperation.
The King of Bhutan Wangchuck, and the Queen of Bhutan, Jetsun Pema Wangchuck, are on an official visit to India from December 5-6. They are accompanied by the Minister for Energy and Natural Resources, Gem Tshering, and senior officials Bhutan government. They arrived in New Delhi on Thursday morning and were received by EAM S Jaishankar at the airport in New Delhi.
“During the visit, the King of Bhutan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held discussions covering the entire gamut of bilateral cooperation and regional and global issues of mutual interest. External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar and senior officials called on The King of Bhutan,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a press release.
The leaders of both nations expressed satisfaction with the significant progress made since their last meeting in March 2024 and welcomed the regular high-level visits and consultations covering diverse sectors of cooperation. They positively assessed the expanding partnership between the two countries, including in areas of trade and economic connectivity, infrastructure, energy, skill development, education, health, cultural heritage, capacity building, sports, youth exchanges, digital economy, e-mobility, space technology, environment conservation, and people-to-people contacts.
Wangchuck and PM Modi expressed satisfaction at the excellent state of bilateral relations and reaffirmed their commitment to further strengthen these exemplary relations. Wangchuck conveyed appreciation for the invaluable support that the Government of India provides for Bhutan’s socio-economic development.
PM Modi reaffirmed India’s abiding commitment to its enduring bonds of friendship and cooperation with Bhutan and reiterated continued and full support to the socio-economic development in Bhutan based on the priorities of the Royal Government and as per the vision of Bhutan’s King, the MEA said.
The Bhutanese side thanked the Indian government for stepping up the development support for Bhutan under the 13th Five Year Plan (2024-29) and India’s support for RGoB’s Economic Stimulus Programme, the release added
Meanwhile, Wangchuck shared with PM Modi the progress in the implementation of his vision for the Gelephu Mindfulness City Special Administrative Region, and how India and Bhutan can work together on the project for the betterment of the two peoples and the region. PM Modi reassured Wangchuck of India’s continued support for the Gelephu Mindfulness City project, which will bring prosperity and well-being to Bhutan and also the border areas, and further strengthen economic and investment linkages between the two countries.
Reaffirming their commitment to strengthen the mutually beneficial cooperation as elaborated in the Joint Vision Statement on India-Bhutan Energy Partnership released during PM Modi’s visit to Bhutan in March 2024, the leaders reviewed recent progress in strategic partnerships in the energy sector, including non-hydro renewable energy between Indian and Bhutanese entities through access to Indian financing and energy markets.
They expressed satisfaction that the 1020 MW Punatshangchhu-II hydropower project was nearing completion, and looked forward to its commissioning in the near future. The leaders agreed on the need for early conclusion of the Punatsangchhu-I hydro power project. The two sides reiterated the importance of cooperation in the hydropower sector, and their commitment to advancing it, including through finalising modalities urgently for new projects, including reservoir hydro projects, the MEA release said.
The two leaders also expressed satisfaction over the opening of the Integrated Check Post at Darranga, Assam, which can boost tourism and economic activity in eastern Bhutan and the adjoining border areas of Assam.
They also noted with satisfaction that several initiatives agreed upon during earlier meetings, such as cross-border connectivity and infrastructure projects, are progressing steadily, including establishment of two cross border rail links and boosting digital connectivity. Both sides noted the recent decisions taken for further improving bilateral trade and commerce.
The leaders welcomed the progress made in the space sector, particularly in implementation of the Joint Plan of Action for cooperation and expressed satisfaction on increased collaboration in the field of education, with emphasis on STEM disciplines, the MEA added.
India and Bhutan enjoy unique ties of friendship and cooperation, characterized by mutual understanding, trust and exceptional cooperation at all levels. The bilateral discussions were held in a spirit of profound friendship, and reflected the strong historical ties, goodwill and understanding that exist between the two countries.
A day before, Jaishankar called on the Bhutan King and assured India’s full support for the development goals of Bhutan. During the meeting, Jaishankar and Wangchuck discussed the steady progress that the India-Bhutan partnership is making. (ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/pm-modi-reiterates-commitment-to-bhutans-development-discusses-key-areas-of-cooperation/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: Devendra Fadnavis sworn in as Maharashtra Chief Minister
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 13:15:23 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in a grand ceremony held at Azad Maidan, Mumbai. Governor CP Radhakrishnan administered the oath of office to Fadnavis, marking the beginning of his historic new term.
The event was attended by a host of prominent leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Chief Ministers from several states, such as Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Bhupendra Patel (Gujarat), and Pushkar Singh Dhami (Uttarakhand), also witnessed the occasion.
Adding a touch of glamour to the ceremony, cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar and Bollywood stars Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, and Madhuri Dixit were present to celebrate the political milestone.
Fadnavis, born on July 22, 1970, in Nagpur, comes from a middle-class family. He holds degrees in law, business management, and project management, which have contributed to his astute political acumen. His political journey began in 1992 when he was elected as a councillor in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, a position he held for two consecutive terms before advancing to serve as an MLA for five terms.
From 2014 to 2019, Fadnavis served as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, becoming the second-youngest to hold the position after Sharad Pawar. During his tenure, he oversaw major projects, including the Samruddhi Expressway, the Police Digitisation Project, and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Krishi Sanman Scheme, which bolstered the state’s infrastructure and welfare initiatives.
Fadnavis briefly held the Chief Minister’s position during the political turmoil in 2019 when the Shiv Sena broke its alliance with the BJP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government with the Congress and NCP.
In the 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Elections, the BJP-led Mahayuti alliance secured a resounding victory, winning 235 seats. The BJP emerged as the single largest party with 132 seats, while its allies, the Shiv Sena and NCP, secured 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
The MVA alliance suffered a significant defeat, with Congress managing only 16 seats, Shiv Sena (UBT) securing 20, and the Sharad Pawar faction of the NCP winning just 10 seats.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-sworn-in-as-maharashtra-chief-minister/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: EAM Jaishankar reiterates India’s support for two-state solution, explains abstention from UN resolutions on Gaza conflict
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 12:41:22 +0000
Content: External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reiterated India’s firm support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict, emphasizing the importance of addressing terrorism and hostage-taking in global discourse.
Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Jaishankar defended India’s decision to abstain from certain United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) resolutions on the Gaza conflict, stating that these resolutions failed to capture the full scope of the situation.
Jaishankar clarified India’s stance in response to TMC MP Saket Gokhale’s inquiry, asserting, “We support the two-state solution and have been public and unambiguous about it. There should be no confusion regarding our position.”
When asked about the International Criminal Court’s (ICC) arrest warrants against Israeli and Hamas leaders, Jaishankar noted that India is not an ICC member. “India decided not to join the ICC after thorough deliberation. Therefore, its decisions are not binding on us, and we have not taken a formal position on this matter,” he said.
The minister also highlighted India’s longstanding humanitarian support for Palestine. He detailed contributions to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), adding a significant increase in annual aid from $1 million to $5 million under the current government. Additionally, he mentioned the provision of over 165 metric tons of medicines and other supplies to Palestine and Lebanon in recent years.
Regarding Israel’s ban on UNRWA, Jaishankar confirmed India’s unwavering commitment to its contributions, saying, “We continue to stand by our decision and have released the latest tranche of support to UNRWA.”
Explaining India’s abstention from some UNGA resolutions, Jaishankar emphasized that these lacked balance and failed to address critical aspects such as the October 7 Hamas attack, terrorism, and hostage-taking. “As a country that has suffered from terrorism, India cannot support resolutions that underplay such acts. Resolutions must be well-drafted, balanced, and reflect the entirety of the situation,” he said.
Jaishankar reiterated India’s condemnation of terrorism and hostage-taking while advocating for adherence to humanitarian law and minimizing civilian casualties. He stressed India’s call for a ceasefire and an end to violence in the region, adding that India’s position remains consistent and principled.
The Gaza conflict escalated after Hamas launched an attack on Israel on October 7, 2023, prompting a large-scale Israeli counter-offensive. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first global leaders to condemn Hamas’ actions, while also urging for a ceasefire and the unconditional release of hostages. India continues to advocate for the two-state solution as the pathway to resolving the long-standing conflict.
(Inputs from ANI)
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/eam-jaishankar-reiterates-indias-support-for-two-state-solution-explains-abstention-from-un-resolutions-on-gaza-conflict/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: The fight for joy Bangla: How India helped Bangladesh achieve independence
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 10:22:10 +0000
Content: Pakistan, created in 1947 after the partition of British India, was a nation seemingly destined for further division. Many analysts considered it a geographical absurdity, a loose amalgamation of two separate territories 1,000 miles apart. Beyond sharing a Muslim majority, West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now known as Bangladesh) had little in common.
One of the most significant differences between the two regions was language, which became a major source of identity problems and fuelled Bengali nationalism among the people of East Pakistan.
While people in West Pakistan spoke Urdu, the main language in East Pakistan was Bengali. In December 1947, students at the University of Dhaka protested, demanding that Bengali be recognized as one of Pakistan’s official languages. This marked the beginning of the language war between East and West Pakistan. Pakistan’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, responded by visiting Dhaka in March 1948 to deliver a stern message: Urdu would be the only official language of Pakistan. Moreover, leaders who spoke Bengali in the East Pakistan assembly were warned they could be tried for treason. Ultimately, West Pakistan imposed Urdu as the sole national language across both regions.
In response, the Bhasha Andolan (Language Movement) began in East Pakistan in 1952. This movement witnessed the deaths of many activists, politicians, and civilians due to atrocities committed by the West Pakistan-led regional regime. A key outcome of the language movement was the establishment of the Awami League in 1955, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
In 1956, Pakistan was established as an Islamic Republic with a new constitution. The country that year accepted Urdu and Bengali as official languages. In 1958, a military coup led by General Muhammad Ayub Khan abrogated that constitution.
The other big difference between the West and East Pakistan was the culture being followed by its people. Speaking a different language than West Pakistan, the people of East Pakistan followed a single ethnicity, Bengali, with a rich past. On the other hand, West Pakistan was a societal mix of people from different origins, including Punjab, Sindh, Baluchistan, and Pashtun people from its border areas, the North-West Frontier Province. Culturally, the people in East Pakistan had a stronger sense of belongingness than those in West Pakistan.
Despite these big differences, there could have been a united Pakistan based on religious similarity if both territories were treated equally by the country’s political leadership. However, the united Pakistan failed miserably here. The two territories, separated by a thousand miles, with different languages spoken and cultures followed, were ruled by a unilateral political leadership from West Pakistan.
The top political lineage under Jinnah that united Pakistan followed was largely from West Pakistan only. Also, its military wing leadership, the army, the air force, and the navy were based in West Pakistan only.
These disparities manifested in the repercussions felt by East Pakistan from 1947 until its liberation in 1971 as Bangladesh. The West Pakistani leadership treated East Pakistan as a colony, extracting benefits while denying it the rights and resources it deserved.
EAST PAKISTAN WAS MORE PROSPEROUS THAN WEST PAKISTAN
According to the 1951 Pakistan Census, East Pakistan had a population of 42 million, exceeding West Pakistan’s 33.7 million. Geographically, East Pakistan was a riverine territory with ample rainfall, making it more prosperous. Its fertile and productive lands stood in contrast to West Pakistan, which, aside from Punjab, was largely dry with barren areas.
Moreover, a study titled “The Struggle in Bangladesh,” published in the Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars, indicates that in the initial years, East Pakistan’s GDP surpassed that of West Pakistan. Educationally, East Pakistan also had an advantage.

Initially, in 1949–50, East Pakistan’s GDP was 13,130 million rupees, more than West Pakistan’s 11,830 million rupees. In education, East Pakistan had 29,633 primary schools in 1947, compared to just 8,413 in West Pakistan. Similarly, East Pakistan had 50 colleges, while West Pakistan had 40.
WEST PAKISTAN’S COLONY
Despite East Pakistan’s higher GDP, better educational levels, and stable cultural heritage, data analysis reveals that West Pakistan monopolized industrialization and other benefits by installing a lame-duck government in East Pakistan.
East Pakistan was the primary source of jute, united Pakistan’s key export commodity. Logistically, industrial units for cotton textiles should have been developed there, but the country’s leadership chose to establish them in West Pakistan. Economic institutions and infrastructure developments, such as seaports, railways, and roads essential for promoting industrial growth further, were largely concentrated in West Pakistan only.
Conversely, East Pakistan experienced limited development, primarily aimed at supporting industries located in West Pakistan, according to the study. Furthermore, most industries in East Pakistan were developed by industrialists based in West Pakistan. Just 11% of industries were owned by Bengalis, making East Pakistan a labour hub for West Pakistan.
The deteriorating situation of East Pakistan over the next two decades reflects this exploitation. While East Pakistan was once more prosperous than West Pakistan, by 1970, the situation had reversed entirely.

Data from the study reveal that by 1968–69, West Pakistan’s GDP exceeded East Pakistan’s by 34%, and its per capita income was 62% higher. In united Pakistan’s first and second Five-Year Plans, 68% of the allocations went to West Pakistan, slightly reduced to 64% in the third plan. Pakistan’s economy largely depended on foreign assistance, of which 70% to 80% benefited West Pakistan. Although East Pakistan contributed up to 70% of Pakistan’s export earnings, 75% of imports were directed to West Pakistan.
CALL FOR SELF-DETERMINATION
These factors, language suppression, cultural differences, economic exploitation, mass arrests, killings, disappearances, and colonial treatment, left East Pakistanis facing an uncertain future after two decades of hostility.
In the 1954 regional elections, a coalition known as the United Front defeated the Muslim League, which had been based in West Pakistan and had ruled East Pakistan until then. In February 1966, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of the Awami League presented his Six-Point Charter to the then-military ruler of Pakistan, Field Marshal Ayub Khan, demanding autonomy and greater control over East Pakistan’s economic affairs. These Six Points became central to Bengali nationalism and eventually transformed into a liberation movement following the 1970 general elections in Pakistan.
1970 PAKISTAN ELECTION: A TURNING POINT – EAST PAKISTAN’S CALL FOR INDEPENDENCE
Pakistan conducted its first general election on December 7, 1970, which is regarded as the most transparent election in the country’s history, according to Geo News, a major Pakistani news platform. The main contenders were Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), based in West Pakistan, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s Awami League, based in East Pakistan. The Awami League achieved a landslide victory, winning 170 seats, while the PPP secured only 81.
Despite the Awami League’s clear mandate to govern all of Pakistan, the country’s military ruler, General Yahya Khan, and the PPP’s Bhutto opposed this outcome. They dismissed the election results and imposed martial law, denying the Awami League its rightful leadership.
This action led to widespread protests and riots in East Pakistan. In response, Sheikh Mujib initiated a civil disobedience movement. On March 7, 1971, the Awami League mobilized 50,000 Bengalis to start a peaceful protest in Dhaka. However, on March 25, 1971, Sheikh Mujib was arrested and airlifted to West Pakistan with the launch of Operation Searchlight.
OPERATION SEARCHLIGHT
Following Sheikh Mujib’s declaration of independence for East Pakistan, West Pakistan launched a brutal crackdown on Bengalis. Operation Searchlight, initiated by West Pakistan on March 25, 1971, stands as one of the most horrific state-run military operations in history. According to various investigative estimates, including the Russian newspaper Pravda, approximately 3 million East Pakistanis were murdered by Pakistani troops and supporting militias.
In the 1970 general election, West Pakistan-based parties failed to win any seats in East Pakistan, underscoring the widespread support for the Awami League and its pro-independence stance among civilians, police, and security forces in East Pakistan. Consequently, West Pakistan’s troops and supporting radical militias targeted these Bengali-speaking populations across the region.
Deploying hundreds of thousands of troops across Dhaka and throughout East Bengal, supported by air and naval power, the main targets were Awami League politicians, military personnel, East Bengal police, and Bengali-speaking civilians.
An analytical report published in the Dhaka Tribune indicates that one of Operation Searchlight’s objectives was to disarm and arrest Bengali soldiers and policemen serving in East Pakistan. Another aim was to attack Hindu-majority areas of Dhaka. On the night of March 25, 1971, casualty figures in Dhaka alone reached approximately 35,000.
During the nine months of the operation, hundreds of thousands of Bengali women were subjected to rape. According to a report in the Smithsonian, around 400,000 women underwent late-term abortions, although the actual number is believed to be much higher.
REFUGEES IN INDIA
The brutal crackdown compelled millions of Bangladeshis to flee to India. By May 1971, India was hosting 1.5 million refugees, a number that swelled to around 10 million by December 1971, making it the largest refugee crisis in the modern world. Internally, the military operation displaced approximately 30 million people within Bangladesh.
This massive influx placed a significant burden on India. Nevertheless, the country stepped forward to assist, despite lacking domestic laws to manage refugees and not being a signatory to the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention or its 1967 protocol. India established 825 refugee camps across seven states, with 19 central camps capable of accommodating up to 50,000 refugees each.
ECONOMIC BURDEN
The economic burden was significant. India had to reassess its Fourth Five-Year Plan. The 1971–72 Budget stated, “The country’s resources, physical as well as fiscal, were greatly strained by developments across the border, the influx of nearly ten million refugees and the outbreak of hostilities in December 1971.” 1 Despite these challenges, the economy responded effectively, as noted in the budget document.  
A World Bank assessment, based on 9 million refugees, estimated the direct cost to India at approximately US$700 million from April 1, 1971, to March 31, 1972, which equates to around US$5.5 billion today. India managed this expenditure largely through internal resources. According to a CIA document from March 1972, released in 2010, the Indian government spent about 4% of its planned central government expenditure for FY1971 on refugee care.
INDIA’S STAND
India supported Sheikh Mujib’s call for independence but initially refrained from participating in the war. Instead, it provided moral and material support to the independence movement. On April 17, 1971, a provisional government of Bangladesh was formed and relocated to Calcutta as the “Bangladesh Government in Exile.”
Meanwhile, the freedom fighters of East Pakistan formed the Mukti Bahini, an armed resistance movement against the West Pakistani military and supporting militias. Comprising members of the Bengali military, paramilitary forces, police, and civilians, these fighters engaged in guerrilla warfare.
India’s support bolstered their efforts. The geographical separation of 1,000 miles of Indian territory between West and East Pakistan meant that Pakistan could not easily reinforce its military presence in East Pakistan with additional air and naval power.
West Pakistan had previously exhibited hostility towards India, notably in the conflicts of 1947 and the 1965 war, which it lost. Its actions in East Pakistan heightened diplomatic tensions and prompted a military buildup in India.
The tipping point occurred on December 3, 1971, when Pakistan launched pre-emptive air strikes on Indian airfields. This act of aggression compelled India to formally enter the war, engaging its Army, Navy, and Air Force in a coordinated response to both the humanitarian crisis and threats to its national sovereignty. Before this, India had adopted a restrained approach, engaging in diplomatic efforts and appealing to West Pakistani leaders to create safe corridors for refugees to return. These appeals were ignored.
THE QUICK END
India’s entry into the 1971 war was driven by the humanitarian crisis and direct threats to its national security. By launching joint military operations with the Mukti Bahini, effective coordination and intelligence sharing were achieved, significantly disrupting Pakistani military efforts. Through a series of strategic offensives, the joint forces rapidly overran West Pakistan’s military presence throughout Dhaka and East Pakistan.
On December 16, 1971, Lieutenant General A.A.K. Niazi of Pakistan unconditionally surrendered to Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora of India, along with 93,000 troops, marking one of the largest surrenders since World War II. The war officially ended with India’s unilateral ceasefire on December 17.
WHY INDIA’S ENGAGEMENT WAS NECESSARY FOR A JOY BANGLA MOVEMENT
The success of the “Joy Bangla” movement on December 16, 1971, could only be possible with India’s commitment to the cause. With the onset of Operation Searchlight, India opened its borders to refugees, providing massive relief operations while simultaneously engaging in diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis. Military intervention by India was the last resort.
The military intervention ultimately helped realize the goals of the “Joy Bangla” movement.
Twenty-three years of suppression, from 1947 to 1970, with West Pakistan ruling East Pakistan through military involvement, left the eastern territory with a strong desire for independence, an aspiration difficult to achieve in an economy controlled by West Pakistani industrialists and a polity dominated by a West Pakistan-based military ruler allied with exploitative politicians.
The increasing number of refugees in India proved the fact that there was no internal security structure and local and regional administration available for them to take over the West Pakistan-led apparatus.
Over ten million refugees fled to India in ten months, while thirty million were internally displaced. The refugee headcount included Bengali military wing officials, soldiers, and police personnel. According to the Bangladesh High Commission in London, thousands of families of officials, soldiers, and activists from East Pakistan were interned in West Pakistan. Killings and rapes became daily events of horror to be observed. India’s daily refugee count surged from 17,000 to 60,000, with numbers continuing to rise.
The freedom fighters of East Pakistan had the courage and will to fight for independence, but they lacked the strength of a coordinated war strategy and the full complement of military resources—army, air force, navy, arms, and ammunition—to defeat West Pakistan’s full-fledged military. They had to fight a country’s army that had exposure to past war experiences, something they didn’t have, as East Pakistan was not the war theatre of the 1965 India-Pakistan war. India’s decision to join the war after Pakistan’s attack on Indian territory proved to be the turning point, helping Bangladesh achieve a goal that once seemed unachievable.
Had the Mukti Bahini not received external support, Operation Searchlight could have seriously affected the East Pakistan freedom movement and its hopes to break the colonial shackles of West Pakistan.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/the-fight-for-joy-bangla-how-india-helped-bangladesh-achieve-independence/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

Title: Devendra Fadnavis set to be sworn in today as Maharashtra CM, Eknath Shinde, Ajit Pawar Deputy CMs
Publication Date: Thu, 05 Dec 2024 04:45:20 +0000
Content: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis will take oath as the Chief Minister of Maharashtra on Thursday in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde along with NCP’s Ajit Pawar will take the oath as Deputy Chief Ministers in the new cabinet, sources said.
The oath-taking ceremony will take place at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan and will see the participation of several NDA Chief Ministers and leaders. Ending the long-drawn suspense over who would get the top job, Fadnavis, Shinde, and Pawar met Governor CP Radhakrishnan to stake their claim to form the MahaYuti government.
After meeting the Governor, Fadnavis said, “The swearing-in ceremony of the new government will be held tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I met Eknath Shinde and requested him to join us in this government, as it is the wish of MahaYuti workers…We will fulfill the promises made to the people of Maharashtra.”
It will be Fadnavis’ third term in the top post after being unanimously elected as the Leader of the Maharashtra BJP Legislative Party on Wednesday. The decision came after days of speculation and political manoeuvring as Eknath Shinde wanted to become the Chief Minister of Maharashtra. However, the BJP, refused to budge and later, Shinde said he would back PM Modi’s pick.
Meanwhile, Eknath Shinde on Wednesday expressed his satisfaction with the two-and a-half years of the Mahayuti government in Maharashtra, ahead of the swearing-in of Fadnavis as Chief Minister.
“I am very happy with the completion of two-and-a-half years. The work done by our government–the MahaYuti government–by the three of us and our team in the last 2.5 years is remarkable. It will be written in golden letters in history. We are proud to have taken such significant decisions,” said Shinde.
Shinde was accompanied by Fadnavis and NCP chief Ajit Pawar at a press conference. Addressing the media, Pawar emphasised their commitment to effective governance. “We will leave no stone unturned in running the government. Party activities will be managed by BJP chief Chandrashekhar Bawankule and NCP’s Sunil Tatkare,” he said.
There was also some light-hearted banter during the press conference. Asked whether he and Ajit Pawar would take oath on December 5 as Fadnavis’ deputies, Shinde said, “Wait till evening…” Pawar, in response to Shinde’s reply, said, “Sham tak unka samaj aayega (We will know about Shinde by evening), I will take it (oath), I will not wait.”
Shinde then said, “Dada (Ajit Pawar) has experience of taking (oath) both in the morning and evening.” This elicted laughter from all those present at the press conference. In the year 2019, Pawar had taken oath as the Deputy Chief Minister with Fadnavis as the Chief Minister in an early morning ceremony at Raj Bhavan.
The 2024 Maharashtra Assembly Election witnessed a resounding victory for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Mahayuti alliance, which secured a landslide win with 235 seats out of 288. The results marked a significant milestone for the BJP, which emerged as the single-largest party with 132 seats. The Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party also recorded notable gains, securing 57 and 41 seats, respectively.
While, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) suffered a major setback with Congress winning just 16 seats. Its alliance partner, Shiv Sena (UBT), won 20 seats, while the NCP (Sharad Pawar faction) secured only 10 seats.
Link: https://ddnews.gov.in/en/devendra-fadnavis-set-to-be-sworn-in-today-as-maharashtra-cm-eknath-shinde-ajit-pawar-deputy-cms/
Fetch Time: 2024-12-07 02:43:19

